

ITIL® 2011 Edition Foundation: ITIL® and the Service Lifecycle
  

Understanding ITIL® and Service Management

1. ITIL® Overview

2. Basics of Service and Service Management

3. Providing Service to Customers

Introducing the Service Lifecycle

1. The ITIL® Service Lifecycle

2. Scope and Value of Lifecycle Stages

3. Lifecycle Functions and Processes 

4. Recognizing the Service Lifecycle Stages
   

ITIL® Overview
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•match the organizations involved with the IT infrastructure library and examinations with their role
•identify the reasons for ITIL®'s success
•identify the features of the ITIL® qualification and examination scheme
 
1. Introduction to ITIL®

More and more organizations are becoming dependant on IT – requiring consistent and high quality IT services. 

The IT Infrastructure Library, commonly referred to as ITIL®, is a set of guidelines and best practices outlining how IT Service Management, or ITSM, can be implemented. It provides documentation in the form of five core publications, each covering a different aspect of ITSM.

ITIL® is intended to help organizations optimize and manage their IT services and practices by focusing on the people, processes, and resources involved in delivering these services.

ITSM involves controlling the methods and strategies associated with managing any IT service provided by an organization, such as PC installation, delivery, and maintenance. ITSM enables organizations to provide reliable, high-quality IT services.

Since its development in the late 1980s, ITIL® has become one of the leading frameworks for ITSM globally. The reasons for this include that
• it is nonproprietary 
• it is nonprescriptive 
• it provides best practices, and 
• it provides good practices 

One of the main reasons for ITIL®'s success is that it is nonproprietary – it is not owned by any organization and can be used by anyone.

ITIL® was developed by the Office of Government Commerce (OGC), an independent office of the British Treasury.

Since July 2013, ITIL® is managed by AXELOS Limited.

It is a generic framework that is not based on any specific operating system, technology, or industry.

A second reason for ITIL®'s success is that it is nonprescriptive – the framework is applicable in all types of organizations of any size. The best practices ITIL® prescribes are equally applicable in the public and private sectors.

ITIL® provides best practices for ITSM by outlining the practices that leading IT service providers, who are considered the best in their fields, follow. This means that your organization benefits from the experience of industry leaders.

It also provides good practices. These are practices that have been adapted from other organizations and environments, and which have been judged to be effective in achieving a particular outcome. Over time, good practices become common practice in an organization.



Question

Why is ITIL® so successful?

Options:
1.It's not owned by any one organization
2.It contains a framework that is applicable to any organization
3.It provides best practices
4.It is very specifically focused on a single area of technology
5.It provides a strict methodology for solving business problems
6.It provides an organization with good practices

Answer

Option 1: Correct. ITIL® is a generic set of guidelines for ITSM. It is not tied to any proprietary knowledge and is not based on any specific technology or operating system.

Option 2: Correct. ITIL® is applicable in all types of organizations that provide IT services. It is not specific to any industry or sector.

Option 3: Correct. ITIL® outlines the practices followed by leading IT service providers, detailing tried and tested methods for ITSM.

Option 4: Incorrect. ITIL® is nonprescriptive – it is not specific to any industry, nor is it based on any specific technology or operating system.

Option 5: Incorrect. The ITIL® provides guidelines for the best practice of ITSM. It does not detail how to solve strategic business problems.

Option 6: Correct. Good practices are those practices which are currently considered most effective. Over time, good practices become common practice and this helps improve overall service provision at an organization.

Correct answer(s):

1. It's not owned by any one organization
2. It contains a framework that is applicable to any organization
3. It provides best practices
6. It provides an organization with good practices

2. Benefits of ITIL®

ITIL® provides a globally recognized framework for the development of good practices in ITSM. Applying ITIL® is beneficial in business environments where there are huge pressures to perform and improve performance, while at the same time managing the trade-offs that come with that.

The benefits of applying ITIL® guidelines in your organization include
• establishing clear links between IT services and business strategies 
• improving quality and speed of IT services, and 
• improving customer relations 

Adopting ITIL® best practices also helps close the gap between you and your competitors. As more organizations adopt ITIL® best practices, they become standard, which levels the playing field and improves the service quality baseline.

Not applying the framework can be detrimental to your organization and can put it at a disadvantage.

For example, a medium-sized IT organization decides to develop its own in-house ITSM guidelines, while its competitor, another medium-sized IT organization, adopts the ITIL® framework. Both companies bid for the same contract, which is awarded to the organization using the ITIL® framework.

The competitor wins the bid because the client recognizes the quality and standards that the organization using ITIL® best practices guidelines provides.



Question

Select reasons why organizations should adopt ITIL®'s best practices for ITSM.

Options:
1.Improved quality and speed of IT services
2.Clear linking between IT services and business strategies
3.Improved customer relations
4.Narrower gap between you and your competitors
5.Improved relations between managers and employees
6.Improved collaboration among companies

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The ITIL® guidelines aim to improve IT service quality, while reducing the costs involved.

Option 2: Correct. The ITIL® guidelines facilitate the close integration of business endeavors and IT services through ITSM.

Option 3: Correct. Adopting the ITIL® best practices means that customers receive better, more affordable, high-quality services on time.

Option 4: Correct. As more organizations adopt the ITIL® best practices, they become standard, closing the gap between competitors.

Option 5: Incorrect. Adopting the ITIL® framework will improve customer relations, not staff member relations.

Option 6: Incorrect. The gap between companies is closed by adopting the ITIL® framework. This doesn't mean increased collaboration.

Correct answer(s):

1. Improved quality and speed of IT services
2. Clear linking between IT services and business strategies
3. Improved customer relations
4. Narrower gap between you and your competitors

3. The ITIL® qualification

The ITIL® qualification scheme has four categories:
FoundationThe Foundation level certificate provides an introductory grounding in ITIL® concepts and covers the basic key concepts underlying the ITIL® framework. The ITIL® Foundation certification exam is worth two credits.IntermediateThe ITIL® Intermediate level is made up of nine modules that each focus on specific areas of the ITIL® framework in further detail. Each module is worth three credits, and candidates can take as few or as many Intermediate qualifications as they require, and to suit their needs.Expert, andCandidates who successfully acquire an ITIL® Foundation certificate, and obtain at least 15 credits from the intermediate modules, can then take the Managing Across the Lifecycle exam. This exam, which consolidates knowledge gained through the Foundation and Intermediate modules, is worth an additional five credits.

On completion, candidates who have accumulated a combined minimum of 22 credits are eligible to attain the ITIL® Expert certification.MasterIn addition to the ITIL® Expert certification, candidates can also attain ITIL® Master certification.

The lTIL® Master certification demonstrates an individual's proven ability to apply key ITIL® concepts and methods to solve real-world problems.


Question

Identify the features of the ITIL® qualification scheme.

Options:
1.There are multiple levels of ITIL® certifications 
2.There are two intermediate streams in the ITIL® examination structure
3.Candidates must first pass the Managing Across the Lifecycle exam before they can obtain the ITIL® Expert level
4.There is the option for advancement in certification
5.The ITIL® Expert certificate is awarded once a candidate completes one of the intermediate streams
6.There are two Foundation level streams in the ITIL® qualification scheme

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The ITIL® certification scheme has a Foundation level, an Intermediate level, an ITIL® Expert level, and an ITIL® Master level.

Option 2: Correct. The ITIL® qualification has two intermediate streams – the Lifecycle stream and the Capability stream.

Option 3: Correct. Candidates who successfully hold the ITIL® Foundation certificate, and obtain at least 15 credits from a selection of modules from both intermediate streams to create a balanced knowledge base across the full ITIL® Service Lifecycle, can then take the Managing Across the Lifecycle exam. Upon passing this exam, candidates then qualify for the ITIL® Expert certification. Once obtained, candidates can choose to seek ITIL® Master certification, which demonstrates a highly advanced level of knowledge and ability implementing the ITIL® framework.

Option 4: Correct. Candidates have the option of obtaining escalating levels of certification within the ITIL® qualification scheme, depending on interest, career requirements, and areas of specialization.

Option 5: Incorrect. Before receiving the ITIL® Expert certificate, a candidate must first pass the Managing Across the Lifecycle exam, and pass the ITIL® Expert exam.

Option 6: Incorrect. The Foundation level course is a singular knowledge stream.

Correct answer(s):

1. There are multiple levels of ITIL® certifications 
2. There are two intermediate streams in the ITIL® examination structure
3. Candidates must first pass the Managing Across the Lifecycle exam before they can obtain the ITIL® Expert level
4. There is the option for advancement in certification

4. Summary

ITIL® is a set of guidelines and best practices outlining how ITSM can be implemented. ITIL® is so successful globally because it is nonproprietary and nonprescriptive, and it provides best practices and good practices.

ITIL® was developed by the OGC, an independent office in the government of the United Kingdom. ITIL ® is now managed by AXELOS Limited.

The benefits of applying ITIL® guidelines in your organization are that the quality and speed of IT services improve, IT services are clearly linked to business strategies, and customer relations improve. IT professionals have the option of gaining a number of progressing ITIL® certifications, including the ITIL® Foundation certificate, the ITIL® Intermediate certificate, the ITIL® Expert certificate, and the ITIL® Master designation.

Back to top
 

Basics of Service and Service Management
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•identify how a service can provide value
•identify the features of services
•identify the features of Service Management
 
1. The features of a service

A service is a method of providing value to customers by helping them achieve their objectives.

Some services help customers achieve their objectives. For example, if a customer wants to invest money at a bank, a consultant provides a service by helping the customer decide on the best investment option.

Other services achieve objectives for the customer. The customer may decide to leave the actual investment in the hands of a financial advisor.

The aim of providing good service is to help customers achieve their own objectives without taking on any cost or risk.

For example, an organization that requires a call center for customer support can eliminate any cost and risk associated with setting up and maintaining the necessary infrastructure and hiring, training, and managing staff by enlisting the services of a service provider. The service provider has already undertaken both the costs and risks involved in setting up and maintaining the service.

Customers will always seek out the service provider that best enables them to achieve their outcomes and that offers the greatest advantages.

Generic services form patterns that recur in a range of contexts. These patterns can be customized for different situations to better manage the task at hand. 

The overall pattern can be applied and reapplied in different situations to make the service more effective in fulfilling the customer's specific goals.

For example, an IT troubleshooting service provider may provide the same basic services to a range of companies – providing telephonic assistance to users who call in for help. However, the type of assistance offered to staff at the customer's organization may differ greatly from the type of service offered to people using the customer's custom-designed software.



Question

What are the features of services?

Options:
1.Enable the customer to create value for the service provider
2.Eliminate the risk for the customer
3.Offer the same value as the customer could provide themselves
4.Take on the service maintenance costs on behalf of the customer

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. The objective of the service provider is to create value for the customer.

Option 2: Correct. Customers use services from a service provider to eliminate the risk of setting up and maintaining the necessary infrastructure.

Option 3: Incorrect. The service provider should offer the customer outstanding value in achieving their goals.

Option 4: Correct. Customers use services from a service provider to eliminate the cost of maintaining the service.

Correct answer(s):

2. Eliminate the risk for the customer
4. Take on the service maintenance costs on behalf of the customer

2. How services provide value

Services are only successful if they provide value for a customer.

To add real value for customers, a service must have utility – be fit for purpose – and have warranty – be fit for use. Together, utility and warranty help to assure customers that their requirements will be consistently fulfilled. 

At the same time, a service shouldn't provide more value than a customer requires and is willing to pay for. This is not cost-effective and so reduces the value of the service.

From the customer's point of view, value is composed of
utility or fitness for purpose, andUtility refers to the value offered by a service to support customer's performance on a task, OR, remove or reduce the effect of any constraints on the task. There are two ways to increase utility. The first is to improve performance. You can improve performance by, for instance, improving the skills of staff, providing the latest and best technology, and encouraging creativity and innovation.

The second method is to relax or remove constraints on performance. Anything that limits the ability to provide service is a constraint. A poor work environment, obsolete computers, or a bureaucratic administrative system are some things that can constrain performance and limit utility. On its own, either method can increase utility.
warranty or fitness for useWarranty refers to an assurance or guarantee that the service will meet its agreed requirements. It deals with the four characteristics describing how the service is delivered to customers. All the four characteristics must be present to provide warranty as shown in the diagram.

 First, a service must be available when it is required. Second, a service must be provided at the right capacity, or level. Third, a service must have continuity. An organization must consistently and continuously provide good service to maintain its reputation. Fourth, the service must provide security. This means it must not involve risk for the customer. If risk is unavoidable, the service should at least minimize this risk.

Say your organization creates software solutions for online banking. To improve service utility, you set about increasing performance by training the developers in the latest technology.

Service delivery has been constrained by use of outdated hardware. So by upgrading to the latest hardware, you remove that constraint on utility.

In terms of warranty, the organization's services are available when needed – it has a reputation for delivering software solutions on schedule. 

It provides service at the required capacity. If an online bank requires 24 hour support, it can offer this.

The organization also offers continuity and security. It has been providing reliable solutions for five years and its software solutions have provided consistent protection against online fraud.

Understanding utility and warranty helps an IT service organization create, maintain, and increase the value of a service. It also helps you decide whether a service is already providing value. A service needs to offer both utility and warranty to add value.

For instance, If the online software solutions organization provides excellent software, it has achieved service utility. But if it is consistently late in meeting deadlines, there is a problem with availability and continuity. Failing to provide warranty reduces overall service value for customers.

Question Set



Say you're a service owner in an organization that provides IT software services. You're studying ways to add value to the service the organization provides in order to increase customer satisfaction.

Question 1 of 2



Question

How can you support or improve the utility of the organization's service?

Options:
1.Provide staff training to improve the problem resolution rate
2.Remove distractions from the organization and improve staff morale
3.Ensure staff always give customers more than they ask for
4.Limit customer queries so that customers are restricted to 15 minutes

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Customers generally want problems to be resolved faster, so by improving performance in this way, you increase utility and add value to the service.

Option 2: Correct. Distractions and low morale are constraints on utility. By removing distractions and improving morale, you add value to the service.

Option 3: Incorrect. Giving customers more than they require often reduces the value of a service in the long run.

Option 4: Incorrect. A software organization must provide support to customers. If customer query time is taking too long, it won't improve utility to curtail a customer – it will reduce warranty and give the organization a bad reputation.

Correct answer(s):

1. Provide staff training to improve the problem resolution rate
2. Remove distractions from the organization and improve staff morale

Question 2 of 2



Question

What can you do to support or improve the warranty of the service?

Options:
1.Employ more staff to reduce the time customers spend unattended
2.Detail all customer interactions to offer greater protection to customers
3.Change the organization's calendar so that it's open throughout the year 
4.Handle all customer interactions in a consistently effective and efficient manner
5.Expand the organization's range of services to include on-site technical support
6.Relax restrictions that prevent staff from showing anger towards difficult customers

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Employing more staff is a way to increase capacity at the software organization. Improving capacity is a way of adding value to the service.

Option 2: Correct. By offering extra protection to customers, you're shielding them from risk. This is a way of improving security, which is a feature of warranty that adds value to service.

Option 3: Correct. Ensuring that the software organization is open throughout the year is a way of improving the availability of the service. This increases its warranty.

Option 4: Correct. Consistency is a sign of continuity. Ensuring that the company provides continuously good service is a way to improve the service warranty.

Option 5: Incorrect. Changing the nature of a service or expanding the offering doesn't necessarily improve the service.

Option 6: Incorrect. A restriction on the behavior of service staff is necessary to maintain politeness to customers. Removing this restriction would reduce warranty because it exposes customers to the risk of abuse.

Correct answer(s):

1. Employ more staff to reduce the time customers spend unattended
2. Detail all customer interactions to offer greater protection to customers
3. Change the organization's calendar so that it's open throughout the year 
4. Handle all customer interactions in a consistently effective and efficient manner

For IT services to add value to an organization and its customers, there must be a shift from business-IT alignment to business-IT integration.

The goal of business-IT integration is that business managers realize the importance of customer service excellence. This goes beyond just meeting customer requirements. For this reason, a customer's requirements should be defined internally only once there's a clear understanding of the customer's desired outcomes.

For instance, customers might initially tell you that they require a basic software integration solution. But when you analyze their desired outcomes, you discover that this is just a minimum requirement. They actually require an entirely new information management architecture. They also need remote access and 24-hour technical support.

3. The features of Service Management

Service Management is a professional practice that has origins in traditional service industries, such as banking, airlines, and hotels. 

In recent years, IT organizations have embraced a service-oriented approach to managing IT processes.

Due to its roots in the traditional service industry, formal standards, best practices, academic research, and a global community are components of Service Management.

Service Management is a set of specialized organizational capabilities that can provide value to customers in the form of services.

In Service Management, the service provider's resources and organizational capabilities are used to manage services over a lifecycle. These assets can be specialized in strategy, design, transition, operation, and continual improvement.

The challenges of Service Management are also a feature of it. This is because a service provider's organizational capabilities are often shaped by the challenges they are expected to overcome. 

For example, if a software development organization needs to overcome challenges in technical support, another organization that offers such support can assist.

Some of the challenges to Service Management can be
the subjective nature of the outputOne of the main challenges to Service Management stems from the fact that good service – the output – is hard to identify, measure, or control.the demand is tied to customers' assetsThe demand for a service is integrally connected to a customer's assets. If the demand is high, the service provider is challenged to keep pace with the customer. If demand is low, the service provider should be cautious of overusing their own assets to supply a service to customers with assets not in high demand.the high level of contact with customers, andService providers work on the front line, often face-to-face and with high level of contact with customers. As such, there may be little buffer between the customer, the front office, and the back office.the changing nature of demandBecause a service provider is often outsourced, the provider needs to secure a steady supply of demand from its customers. This can only be done by offering value in the form of consistent quality.
The challenges faced in Service Management depend very much on the nature of the service being rendered.

For example, a service provider who deals only with telephonic support may find the ability to deal with all calls quickly to be a challenge to Service Management.

However, a service provider who deals with customers face-to-face and also deals with telephonic and e-mail enquiries may not be challenged in the same way.



Question

What are the features of Service Management?

Options:
1.Aims to provide specialized organizational capabilities
2.Has roots in the IT industry
3.Is comprised of a range of general resources
4.Is a professional practice

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Service Management provides value to customers by offering specialized organizational capabilities for services over its lifecycle.

Option 2: Incorrect. Service Management has roots in the traditional service industry and has since been widely adopted in the IT sector.

Option 3: Incorrect. The resources used in Service Management can be highly specialized in a range of fields including strategy, design, and operations.

Option 4: Correct. Service Management is a professional practice that is supported by formal standards and best practices.

Correct answer(s):

1. Aims to provide specialized organizational capabilities
4. Is a professional practice

4. Summary

The defining feature of a service is that it provides value by enabling the customer to achieve their own objectives. 

Services can provide value by offering utility and warranty of service to the customer. This means that the service provider must consistently aid its customers in achieving their goals, according to the customers' specifications.

The professional practice of providing service – known as Service Management – is an industry supported by a global body of knowledge and a global community.

Back to top
 

Providing Service to Customers
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize the importance of Service Management and the challenges service providers face
 
1. Exercise Overview

In this exercise, you're required to identify Service Management challenges and best practices.

This involves the following tasks:
•identifying features of Service Management, and
•identifying ways to add value to services

2. Task 1: Identifying Service Management features

Gleeson Associates, a computer sales organization, is considering implementing the ITIL® framework in order to improve services rendered and Service Management.



Question

What is Service Management?

Options:
1.An operating method that is supported by formal standards and academic research
2.A practice derived from the IT sector
3.An approach to managing IT processes
4.A set of best practices developed in the public sector

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The practice of Service Management is supported by formal standards, academic research, and the global service industry.

Option 2: Incorrect. Service Management is a professional practice derived from service industry sectors, such as banking and airlines.

Option 3: Incorrect. Service Management is a service-oriented approach to managing IT processes.

Option 4: Incorrect. The best practices employed in Service Management are derived from a global community of service practitioners.

Correct answer(s):

1. An operating method that is supported by formal standards and academic research



Question

Identify the reasons for adopting good practices in Service Management.

Options:
1.To better manage the trade-offs between increasing the clientele and increasing speed of delivery
2.To build better relationships with existing customers
3.To improve relationships between staff members of various designations
4.To provide a more efficient and speedy service
5.To improve collaboration with the organization that supplies you with hardware and components

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Adopting good practices in Service Management can help an organization integrate business objectives with the rendering of IT services.

Option 2: Correct. One of the benefits of implementing ITIL® best practices in an organization is an improvement in customer relations.

Option 3: Incorrect. ITIL® best practices are focused on improving Service Management and service rendered. It does not specifically aim to improve staff relations.

Option 4: Correct. ITIL® best practices focus on improving the quality of IT services rendered and the speed at which they are performed.

Option 5: Incorrect. ITIL® best practices are geared toward improving the quality of IT services rendered. They do not help improve collaborative relationships between business partners.

Correct answer(s):

1. To better manage the trade-offs between increasing the clientele and increasing speed of delivery
2. To build better relationships with existing customers
4. To provide a more efficient and speedy service



Question

What challenges do Service Management providers face?

Options:
1.Once the service is rendered, the customer need not return
2.It's difficult to apply Service Management features to a service supplied in the IT sector
3.The demand for the service depends on whether the customer is growing its business or upgrading existing systems
4.Customer satisfaction depends on quality of interactions with the service provider

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. The service provider can secure a steady supply of demand by encouraging new customers. This can be done by offering value and consistent quality, so that the provider can build a reputation and old customers refer new ones.

Option 2: Incorrect. While Service Management has its roots in the traditional service industry, it has been successfully and widely adopted in the IT sector.

Option 3: Correct. One of the challenges to Service Management is that the demand for the service is tied to customers' assets. In this case, your organization can provide computers to the customer only if the customer requires upgrades or employs more staff members.

Option 4: Correct. The high level of contact between service providers and customers can pose a challenge to good Service Management because there is little or no buffer between the customer, the front office, and the back office.

Correct answer(s):

3. The demand for the service depends on whether the customer is growing its business or upgrading existing systems
4. Customer satisfaction depends on quality of interactions with the service provider

3. Task 2: Identifying ways to add value

Gleeson Associates receives calls from and gives quotes to customers who need IT systems. If a customer accepts a quote, Gleeson's staff source components and assemble the computers, install required software, and deliver on schedule. Gleeson Associate's aim is not to overdeliver on either quality or price to the detriment of customers.



Question

How can your organization improve the warranty of the services it offers to its customers?

Options:
1.By providing accurate technical advice when requested
2.Ensure that hardware and software are thoroughly tested before delivery
3.Discount old stock to clear it
4.Charge more for products so that customers think they're getting better value
5.Subcontract a courier service to deliver products around the world
6.Maintain a reputation for consistent and reliable after-sales service

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Providing accurate technical advice would involve increasing the organization's capacity as a supplier of technical products. This increases the warranty of the service and so adds value to it.

Option 2: Correct. Ensuring components are in good working order improves the security of the service for customers, who can assume the products they receive are ready to use. This increases the warranty of its service and so adds to its value.

Option 3: Incorrect. Discounting stock or services is not a way of adding value to them. It does not add utility or warranty.

Option 4: Incorrect. Creating false impressions about a service or product is unethical and does not add value.

Option 5: Correct. By enabling customers from anywhere in the world to purchase products and have them delivered, you're increasing the availability of the service. This is an element of warranty that adds value to the service.

Option 6: Correct. Continuity and consistency increase service warranty and so add to the value of the service.

Correct answer(s):

1. By providing accurate technical advice when requested
2. Ensure that hardware and software are thoroughly tested before delivery
5. Subcontract a courier service to deliver products around the world
6. Maintain a reputation for consistent and reliable after-sales service



Question

In which ways can Gleeson Associates increase the utility of its service?

Options:
1.Speed up the completion of new orders
2.Increase the range of brands available to customers
3.Implement a new network installations service
4.Improve staff morale by implementing an annual shutdown of two weeks

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Turnaround time on orders is a measure of service performance. By improving this metric, you increase the utility of the service and so add value to it.

Option 2: Correct. A limited choice of products is a constraint on customer service. By increasing the choices available to customers, you remove the constraint and increase the utility of the service. This in turn increases its value.

Option 3: Incorrect. Adding a new service offering is not necessarily a way of increasing the value of existing services.

Option 4: Incorrect. Staff morale might be improved by a shutdown, but customer service will stop during the shutdown and the service will lose value as a result.

Correct answer(s):

1. Speed up the completion of new orders
2. Increase the range of brands available to customers

Service Management challenges and best practices have been identified, and ways to add value to a service through utility and warranty have been recognized.

Back to top
 

The ITIL® Service Lifecycle
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•match each ITIL® volume with a description of what it provides
•recognize the goals and objectives of each Lifecycle stage
 
1. Stages of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle

ITIL® provides a framework and best practice guidelines for implementing, providing, managing and maintaining IT services.

The core of the ITIL® framework is the ITIL® Service Lifecycle – a comprehensive approach to Service Management. Applying the stages of the lifecycle will ensure that Service Management processes are efficient and effective, and that a balance is kept between a strong, stable structure and an environment that can improve and adapt to business needs.



Graphic

A diagram illustrates the relationship between the components of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle in the form of one circle that is surrounded by four wide borders. In the middle circle is the Service Strategy. It is surrounded by the first wide border, which contains an arrow pointing to the right. The next border contains three arrows, each flowing into the other and each with its own label – Service Operation, Service Design, and Service Transition. The fourth and fifth borders represent the Continual Service Improvement component.

The ITIL® Service Lifecycle is important in that it provides structure. The importance of structure is its ability to organize information and processes into an interconnected framework. 

Information would be useless without any structure – you would have no way of determining the relative importance of the items of information or the connections between them.



Graphic

A diagram illustrates that structure determines patterns of behavior, which generate events. High leverage for lasting change flows from events to patterns of behavior to structure. Examples of events are service unavailable, project misses a deadline, security compromised, network congestion, server failover, and disaster declared. Examples of patterns of behavior are 'Uptrend in incidents per month,' '2/3 of the projects went over budget last year,' 'Oscillations in progress compliance," and 'Degradation in staff morale.' Examples of structure are the Service Lifecycle, and event-oriented management.

Having a structure in place helps to determine patterns of behavior. It is easier to control or change the structure rather than having to deal with specific events.

The ITIL® Service Lifecycle provides guidelines to help understand structure, the connection between processes and components, and how changes in any area can affect the whole system or parts of it.

The ITIL® Service Lifecycle is comprised of five key stages:
Service StrategyThe Service Strategy stage is for determining the underlying principles used for developing the policies, objectives, guidelines, and processes that are required throughout the progression of the lifecycle. It also involves identifying business opportunities.

The lifecycle tends to rotate around the Service Strategy stage because the decisions made here will have impact on the subsequent stages of the life cycle.Service DesignService Design is the stage in which IT services are designed and developed. The design encompasses all aspects of the service, and is based on the principles founded during the Service Strategy stage.Service TransitionService Transition is the stage for creating the framework that will ensure that the designed service is effectively and efficiently implemented in the live environment.

This stage includes determining risks, constraints, and whether the service will meet requirements. This ensures that the expected performance is closely in line with the actual performance.Service Operation, andService Operation is the stage in which all the required activities and processes for effectively running designed services are carried out, so that the framework developed in the Service Transition stage is effectively implemented.Continual Service ImprovementThe Continual Service Improvement, or CSI, stage is an overarching stage for maintaining the quality of services. This is done through learning and improving on the processes involved in each stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle. 

These continual improvements help to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of each stage.


Question

What are the five stages of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle?

Options:
1.Service Transition
2.Service Strategy
3.Service Structure
4.Continual Service Improvement
5.Service Design
6.Service Operation
7.Service Management

Answer

Option 1: Correct. During the Service Transition stage, the designed service is effectively and efficiently implemented in the live environment. 

Option 2: Correct. The Service Strategy stage determines the underlying principles and objectives of the service, and affects decisions and activities throughout the ITIL® Service Lifecycle.

Option 3: Incorrect. The service structure refers to the entire process of organizing information within the ITIL® Service Lifecycle, rather than a specific stage.

Option 4: Correct. The Continual Service Improvement stage ensures the quality of services and processes throughout the ITIL® Service Lifecycle. This is done through learning and improving within each stage of the lifecycle.

Option 5: Correct. Service Design is the stage in which services are designed and developed based on the principles founded during the Service Strategy stage.

Option 6: Correct. Service Operation is the stage in which the processes for effectively delivering IT services are carried out.

Option 7: Incorrect. Service Management refers to the organizational capabilities that are used to provide customers value through services, rather than a specific stage.

Correct answer(s):

1. Service Transition
2. Service Strategy
4. Continual Service Improvement
5. Service Design
6. Service Operation

Each stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle is represented by a volume in the ITIL® Core library. Together, these volumes provide an integrated approach to IT Service Management throughout the ITIL® Service Lifecycle.

Each publication of the ITIL® Core library provides guidance on each of the five ITIL® Service Lifecycle stages.
Service StrategyThe Service Strategy publication is a guide on how to develop Service Management as a strategic asset. Organizations can use this publication as a guide to develop strategic objectives, as well as assess costs and risks associated with providing IT services.

Guidance is provided from a wide range of expertise, including marketing management, finance, information systems, system dynamics, and industrial engineering. 
Service DesignThe Service Design publication is a guide to assist in the development and design of IT services, as well as the Service Management process. This is done with the use of design principles that convert strategic IT objectives into a workable service or portfolio of IT services.

This publication can be used to assist in the creation of new IT services or the improvement of existing IT services. 
Service TransitionThe Service Transition publication helps to create a framework that will ensure a smooth transition between Service Design and Service Operation. This includes guidelines for assessing and controlling risks and managing changes, so as to reduce the chance of unexpected results, failures, or setbacks when IT services go live. 
Service OperationThe Service Operation publication provides guidelines for managing service delivery and IT operations to ensure that the strategic objectives are met. 

The publication provides the best practices, methods, and tools to control IT operations both proactively and reactively. It also contains guidelines for maintaining stability while allowing for necessary improvement and change to the design, scale, or service levels. Service providers and users also benefit from this publication as it provides guidance for making problem-solving decisions and preparing for demand challenges. 
Continual Service ImprovementThe Continual Service Improvement publication provides overall guidance for the continual maintenance and improvement of services and Service Management to increase the quality , value for customers, and operational efficiency of IT services.

This publication has application across the ITIL® Service Lifecycle and provides guidance for improvement in service strategy, design, transition, and operations. 

Question Set



Each stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle has a corresponding publication in the ITIL® Core library. Answer the following questions on the publications and the guidelines they provide.

Question 1 of 2



Question

Match each publication of the ITIL® Core library with the description of the guidance it provides.

Options:
A.Service Strategy
B.Continual Service Improvement
C.Service Transition

Targets:
1.Provides guidelines for developing the strategic objectives that underlie an IT service
2.Provides guidance across all the stages of the Service Lifecycle to improve service and management of services
3.Provides guidelines to help reduce the chance of unexpected results when implementing designed IT services

Answer

The Service Strategy publication provides guidance to help service-providing organizations develop ITService Management into a strategic asset.

The Continual Service Improvement publication can help organizations achieve better quality service, value for customers, and operational efficiency.

The Service Transition publication helps to create a framework that supports a smooth transition from Service Design to Service Operation. 

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Question 2 of 2



Question

Match the ITIL® Core library publication with the description of what it contains.

Options:
A.Service Design
B.Service Operation
C.Service Transition

Targets:
1.Provides design principles to assist with developing and designing IT services
2.Provides guidelines to effectively and efficiently carry out service delivery and operations
3.Provides assistance to ensure that the implementation of designed IT services is efficient

Answer

The Service Design publication assists in creating new IT services or improving existing ones. Design principles are used to convert strategic objectives into IT services.

The Service Operation publication provides the best methods of controlling operational activities both proactively and reactively. It also contains guidelines for managers and users to enable them to make service-related decisions.

The Service Transition publication offers guidelines for managing changes and controlling risks to reduce the chance of errors and problems when IT services are transitioned into operation.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

2. Objectives of the Lifecycle stages

Each stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle has specific objectives.

During the Service Strategy stage, the primary purpose is to create the strategic goals and objectives that an organization hopes to achieve through the IT services it delivers.

Objectives of the Service Strategy stage include
• turning Service Management into strategic assets to help service-providing organizations achieve their goals 
• determining the nature and the type of IT services to offer and how they may differ from competing IT services 
• creating value for customers and stakeholders 
• defining service quality and determining how to deliver and improve it 
• determining how to allocate resources and creating a strategy for leveling overallocated resources, and 
• determining where and when to make strategic investments 

The purpose of the Service Design stage is to use the principles developed in the Service Strategy stage and design new IT services or modify existing ones.

The primary objective of the Service Design stage is to design sound services and processes. The design of plans, processes, infrastructure, environments, applications, and data resources must meet all objectives and business requirements, such as quality, risk, compliance, and security requirements.

Further objectives of the Service Design stage include
• designing processes that ensure efficiency, effectiveness, and good Service Management throughout the ITIL® Service Lifecycle 
• designing a stable ITinfrastructure that can be expanded further or developed without compromising time or cost constraints 
• recognizing and controlling risks 
• designing measurement methods to evaluate the success of the design processes 
• assisting in the creation of policies and standards through feedback about the design process, and 
• ensuring that IT services do not need to be reworked once implemented 

The purpose of the Service Transition stage is to ensure that designed IT services are efficiently and effectively transitioned into operation. This is done through packaging, building, testing, and then deploying the services into the live environment.

The main objectives in the Service Transition stage are
selecting resources and capacityAn important objective during this stage is to select the resources and capacity that are required to establish IT services, and to ensure that these resources are within the estimated budget, quality, and time expectations.
controlling visible errors and anticipating risksWhen IT services are transitioned into operation, it is important to ensure that the expected performance levels of the IT services are closely in line with their actual performance. This stage reduces and controls visible errors and anticipated risks so that there is little or no unanticipated impact on the lifecycle.
meeting service requirements and constraints, andDuring Service Transition, operations, and support must be able to meet service requirements and constraints that were specified during the Service Design and Service Strategy stages.
meeting customer expectationsUpon implementation of the IT services performance, use, and ability of the services must meet customer expectations. The customer, user, and service providers must be satisfied with the methods of deployment, communication, the accompanying data, training, and knowledge handover. 

The customer and service providers must also be provided with sound knowledge and clear plans in which to integrate the service.

During the Service Operation stage, the primary purpose is to ensure that the processes for effectively running IT services are carried out properly.

Some of the objectives of the Service Operation stage include
• continually maintaining any and all technology that accompanies the IT services 
• ensuring that the everyday operation of processes is properly conducted and controlled 
• ensuring efficient and effective management of the operational processes, and 
• continually monitoring performance, conducting assessments, and gathering information 

CSI, which is central to IT governance, is concerned with the overall improvement of all stages and processes that constitute an organization's delivered IT services, both internally and externally.

The purpose of CSI is to ensure that any areas that need improvement are identified, and that those improvements are effectively and efficiently administered.

For instance, this may involve auditing quality assurance processes and implementing any changes you identify that will help improve quality control.

Governance, and CSI in particular, involves managing and maintaining a sustainable IT infrastructure that serves the needs of all stakeholders in the most effective and efficient way. It also involves ensuring that services are cost-effective.

Enterprise governance is the all-encompassing framework within which an organization's strategic goals, business drivers, performance, and management practices are aligned and integrated.

Enterprise governance seeks to ensure conformance through corporate governance, and ensure performance through good business governance or management. It achieves this by aligning corporate governance to performance.

Corporate governance is primarily concerned with the ethical standards of fairness, transparency, and accountability.

Business governance, of which IT governance is a component, promotes business performance. Performance is indicated by value creation and resource utilization.

Corporate governance promotes value creation and resource utilization by providing the ethical framework for good business governance.

Business governance, on the other hand, supports corporate accountability and assurance by applying checks and balances to business performance metrics.

IT governance is the aspect of business governance that provides the leadership structures and processes that align IT management with organizational strategies and objectives. This is a responsibility of the directors and managing executives.

Objectives of the CSI stage include
• reviewing and improving on aspects of each ITIL® Service Lifecycle stage 
• applying activities that improve overall IT service quality, as well as IT Service Management processes 
• ensuring customer satisfaction while maintaining cost effectiveness, and 
• ensuring the quality of the management methods used for the CSI process 

Question Set



Each stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle contains specific purposes and objectives. Try and identify the objectives of each stage.

Question 1 of 3



Question

Match the objective to its stage in the ITIL® Service Lifecycle. More than one objective may match to a stage.

Options:
A.Ensure minimal unpredicted errors and risks
B.Enable customers to integrate and use the service
C.Ensure service meets requirements and constraints
D.Create a stable infrastructure that can be further developed 
E.Create measurement methods to evaluate design processes
F.Ensure the design of IT services meets all objectives and business requirements

Targets:
1.Service Transition
2.Service Design

Answer

The Service Transition stage ensures that risks are anticipated so that the expected performance of IT services are realized. This stage also provides plans to the customer and user to ensure that they can effectively use and integrate the service.

The Service Design stage ensures that the infrastructure created can be developed or improved in future within time and budget constraints, and that all components of the design can meet business objectives.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A, Option B, Option C

Target 2 = Option D, Option E, Option F

Question 2 of 3



Question

Match the ITIL® Service Lifecycle objective with its stage. More than one objective may match to a stage.

Options:
A.Ensure that the everyday operation of processes is properly conducted
B.Maintain the service technology
C.Monitor performance and gather information
D.Turn Service Management into strategic assets
E.Determine the nature and the type of service being offered
F.Define service quality and determine how to deliver it

Targets:
1.Service Operation
2.Service Strategy

Answer

The main objective of the Service Operation stage is to ensure that IT services operate effectively, and do not lead to setbacks. This includes ensuring that the service technology does not fail or cause undesired results during production. Information gathered can ensure that the quality, effectiveness, and efficiency of the service can be maintained.

The main objective of the Service Strategy stage is to ensure that organizations can achieve their goals by helping to determine what strategies, principles, goals, and service level quality are necessary for the types of IT services being offered. 

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A, Option B, Option C

Target 2 = Option D, Option E, Option F

Question 3 of 3



Question

Which are objectives of the CSI stage?

Options:
1.Ensure minimal unpredicted errors upon integrating IT services
2.Improve each stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle
3.Design and create efficient IT services that can be developed over time
4.Apply activities that improve overall IT Service Management processes
5.Ensure customer satisfaction while maintaining cost effectiveness

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. This objective is part of the Service Transition stage, which is concerned with integrating IT services as smoothly as possible into operation. The CSI stage is more concerned with the overall improvement of all the stages of the lifecycle.

Option 2: Correct. The CSI stage has the objective of learning from, reviewing, and improving the processes and practices of each stage of the lifecycle.

Option 3: Incorrect. This objective is rather suited to the Service Design stage, because this stage is primarily concerned with the creation of ITservices. CSI is concerned with the overall improvement of each stage in the ITIL® Service Lifecycle.

Option 4: Correct. The CSI stage has the objective of improving activities in all stages of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle, which includes improving the management processes of each stage.

Option 5: Correct. An important objective of the CSI stage is to ensure that customers and users are satisfied at all stages of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle and to do this without going over budget or cost expectations.

Correct answer(s):

2. Improve each stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle
4. Apply activities that improve overall IT Service Management processes
5. Ensure customer satisfaction while maintaining cost effectiveness

3. Summary

ITIL® provides a structure for implementing and maintaining IT Service Management. The ITIL® Service Lifecycle is a comprehensive approach to the various aspects of Service Management, and consists of five stages – Service Strategy, Service Design, Service Transition, Service Operation, and CSI. Each stage is represented by a corresponding publication in the ITIL® Core library.

Each stage in the ITIL® Service Lifecycle has a purpose and particular objectives. The Service Strategy stage is concerned with creating the underlying principles and requirements that will govern the ITIL® Service Lifecycle. The Service Design stage is focused on designing new IT services or modifications to existing ones. The purpose of the Service Transition stage is to ensure a smooth move of IT services from design to operation. The Service Operation stage is designed to ensure that the day-to-day operation of IT services are successful. And the CSI stage is an overarching stage that uses the CSI approach to ensure quality throughout each stage of the lifecycle.

Back to top
 

Scope and Value of Lifecycle Stages
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize the scope of each Service Lifecycle stage
•recognize the value of each Service Lifecycle stage
 
1. The scope of Lifecycle stages

Each stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle performs specific activities to realize particular objectives.

These activities are known as the scope of the stage:
determining strategic objectivesThe Service Strategy stage scope includes determining strategic objectives, which in turn requires defining resources. The scope also includes providing guidance for growth, prioritizing IT investments, creating plans and actions, and assigning them functions in Service Management. It also includes defining the expected results so the success of Service Management can be evaluated at a later stage.creating a developed solutionThe Service Design stage scope encompasses creating a developed solution that can meet the business requirements – such as the business strategies and constraints – that are documented in the Service Portfolio.packaging, building, testing, and releasing the serviceThe scope of Service Transition includes managing all the processes, systems, and functions that are required, and packaging, building, testing and releasing the service.

Throughout the Service Transition stage, an organization must ensure that all the customer requirements and expectations are met, and that incident management strategies are in place to ensure a smooth transition.running and supporting a service, andThe scope of Service Operation includes running and supporting a service. Any activity that forms part of the IT service, whether it is carried out by a user, customer, or external supplier, is considered to be part of Service Operation. The scope also includes the performance of most Service Management processes, management of the technology required to deliver and maintain the service, and recognition of the people who are responsible for the demand, decisions, and management of the IT service.maintaining the overall health of IT Service ManagementThe scope of Continual Service Improvement (CSI) is broadly comprised of maintaining the overall health of IT Service Management, continually aligning services with business needs, and monitoring the maturity of processes throughout the Service Lifecycle.

More specifically, this includes ensuring that IT services and management is meeting the required results through the CSI approach. It also includes performing internal audits, gathering information on customer satisfaction, making recommendations, and reviewing the service and deliverables for relevance and for further improvement opportunities.
Service Operation generates value for the customer by applying the plans, designs, resources, and solutions developed during the other stages of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle.

From the customer's perspective, Service Operation is the most valuable stage because it promotes effective and efficient service delivery and support.

The Service Operation stage involves using tools, guidelines, and processes to ensure consistency and stability in operational activities. A stable IT operations environment makes it easier to implement changes and improvements in the design, scale, and scope of service offerings and service levels. 

During this stage, an organization may take both proactive and reactive steps to manage the technologies and activities required to support an IT service.

The Service Operation stage supports the provision of services, management of demand, and optimal use of organizational capacity. Other areas where it applies include problem solving, scheduling operational activities, and implementing new IT models and architectures. 

For instance, it may involve implementing a new document management and version control system, controlling remote access to the system, and giving users access to their profiles via the Internet.

Question Set



Each stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle has a scope of functions. Try to identify the scope of each stage.

Question 1 of 2



Question

Which options cover the scope of CSI?

Options:
1.Creating a developed solution
2.Maintaining the overall health of IT Service Management
3.Aligning services with business needs on an ongoing basis
4.Testing the service for release
5.Monitoring the maturity of processes throughout the ITIL® Service Lifestyle

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. Creating a developed solution is part of the scope of the Service Design stage. The CSI stage focuses on maintaining the needs and requirements of the business.

Option 2: Correct. CSI includes ensuring that Service Management processes are meeting the required results, as well as making recommendations and implementing improvements where needed.

Option 3: Correct. The scope of the CSI stage includes gathering information on customer satisfaction, and reviewing the service and deliverables.

Option 4: Incorrect. Testing a service falls under the scope of Service Transition. CSI is focused on reviewing the methods and practices that may be employed for testing the service, and improving on those methods.

Option 5: Correct. CSI includes activities such as carrying out maturity assessments on processes and activities so as to identify areas that need improvement.

Correct answer(s):

2. Maintaining the overall health of IT Service Management
3. Aligning services with business needs on an ongoing basis
5. Monitoring the maturity of processes throughout the ITIL® Service Lifestyle

Question 2 of 2



Question

Match the stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle to its scope.

Options:
A.Service Transition
B.Service Design
C.Service Operation
D.Service Strategy

Targets:
1.Packaging, building, testing, and deploying the IT service
2.Creating a developed solution that can meet all the business requirements
3.Managing and controlling ITservice-related activities, including the performance of most Service Management processes, the technology and resources
4.Determining strategic objectives, assigning activities to Service Management, and defining expected results

Answer

The scope of Service Transition covers the activities required to move the IT service into operation, and includes meeting all customer and user requirements and expectations.

Service Design includes designing a solution that can meet the business requirements and constraints, as set out in the Service Portfolio.

The scope of Service Operation consists of any activity that forms part of the IT service, including activities attributed to users, customers, external suppliers, internal parties, Service Management processes, or technology.

The Service Strategy stage is used to determine strategic objectives and use them to help assign activities to Service Management. Determining the expected results of a service helps to evaluate performance as the service progresses.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

2. The value of Lifecycle stages

Each stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle intends to provide some kind of value to the business – benefits the organization can achieve if it adopts good practices.

The value that Service Strategy provides for a business is that if it is effectively and efficiently used to develop strategic objectives, it can help organizations to develop and maintain the advantage of being reliable and valuable IT service providers.

The value achieved by good Service Design can be observed when a good quality, cost-effective service is created according to business requirements.

Some of the benefits that can result from superior Service Design practices are
Reduced Total Cost of Ownership, or TCOIf all the parts of the IT service, including the technology and processes, are designed according to good design practices, and the design is adhered to when the service is implemented, the cost of ownership can be kept to a minimum with TCO.
improved quality and consistency of IT services and IT Service Management processesImproved quality and consistency of ITservices and IT Service Management processes are benefits of good Service Design practices. Also, because IT services are designed within a predefined strategy and infrastructure, consistency can also be assured.
effective IT service performanceEffective IT service performance can be realized through including Capacity, Financial, Availability, and IT Service Continuity plans.
efficient implementation and better IT service alignmentGood Service Design can ensure that ITservices can be effectively implemented and IT services align better to current and future business needs. This ensures that the IT service will meet Service Level Requirements, also known as SLRs.
improved IT governance, andImproved IT governance secures an adequate set of controls that is determined, implemented, and conveyed.
better information and decision-makingIf Service Design includes the creation of thorough and effective measurements and metrics, this will help to ensure that information gathered is reliable and valuable, and in so doing help to ensure better decision-making in Service Management processes.

The Service Transition stage is important for enabling an IT service provider to align services with business requirements and operations. 

Effective administering of Service Transition can ensure that an IT service provider is adaptable and has the competitive edge in being able to handle a large amount of changes, improvements, and releases for all its customers.

The Service Transition stage can add value to a business by improving
• a business' productivity, including staff productivity through the use of a new or improved ITservice 
• the ability to predict the service levels for the IT service, and to reduce high variances between expected and actual performance of the IT service 
• value to business operations through effective use of the service by customers and users 
• the ability to meet business and governance compliance requirements 
• skills in predicting risks and the type of risks, so as to prevent service outages, disruptions, or reworks, and 
• the administration of maintenance contracts so that cancellations or changes are timely and without problems 

The value that Service Operation provides is that it culminates the value that each of the other stages of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle provides.

The Service Strategy stage determines service value, the Service Design and Transition stages design, predict, and validate an IT service, and the CSI stage identifies areas that can be improved and optimized. The value of the Service Operation stage is therefore the fact that these plans, designs, and improvements are realized and monitored through IT service operation.

Service Operation also provides value to the customer, as it is the stage where the results of an IT service are most apparent. This means that its value can be readily determined.

The four terms that illustrate the value that CSI provides to a business are
improvementsImprovements are results that show a tangible positive difference when a process has been applied. CSI can produce such improvements.

For example, an IT organization applies a Change Management process and experiences a 10% increase in successful changes as a result. This result is regarded as an improvement.
benefitsThe implementation of improvements yields a measurable result known as benefits.

For example, an IT organization that has recorded an improvement in the form of a 10% increase in successful changes will experience the benefit of an increase of $300,000 in productivity in one year.
Return on Investment, commonly referred to as ROI, andROI is defined as the difference between the benefit and the cost of the benefit, divided by the cost of the benefit. It is expressed as a percentage. In other words, the ROI will determine how much was saved in proportion to what was spent.

For example, if an IT organization achieves a benefit of $300,000 through establishing a Change Management process that cost $200,000 to create, the ROI will be 50%.
Value on Investment, or VOIVOI is defined as additional value that is derived from benefits gained. This additional value can include non-monetary gains, or gains that are realized over a longer time period.

For example, say an IT organization introduces a Change Management process that increases its adaptability. This will enable it to respond quickly to market changes and to recognize opportunities.

Question Set



Each stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle provides value to organizations. Try and identify the value of each stage.

Question 1 of 2



Question

Identify the various kinds of value that Continual Service Improvement can provide to an organization.

Options:
1.Good quality service creation
2.Return on Investment (ROI)
3.Improvements
4.Service through good training of customers and users
5.Benefits
6.Value on Investment (VOI)

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. The creation of a good quality service is a value attributed to the Service Design stage The CSI stage can create value by helping to realize benefits through improved Service Design.

Option 2: Correct. ROI determines how much was saved in proportion to what was spent, and is expressed as a percentage.

Option 3: Correct. Effective implementation of CSI can yield improvements, which are results that show a tangible positive difference when a process has been applied.

Option 4: Incorrect. The value of customers and users being able to effectively use the service is attributed to the Service Transition stage. CSI would help to determine those benefits.

Option 5: Correct. The improvements brought about through effective CSI yield measurable benefits.

Option 6: Correct. VOI is the additional value that is derived from benefits gained, and includes nonmonetary gains.

Correct answer(s):

2. Return on Investment (ROI)
3. Improvements
5. Benefits
6. Value on Investment (VOI)

Question 2 of 2



Question

Match the stage of the Service Lifecycle to the value it can provide to an organization.

Options:
A.Service Transition
B.Service Design
C.Service Strategy
D.Service Operation

Targets:
1.Adaptable to large amount of changes and releases
2.Reduced total cost of ownership and improved quality
3.Good reputation due to effective strategic objectives
4.Consolidates and visibly demonstrates the value of each stage

Answer

Effective administering of Service Transition ensures that an organization has the competitive edge in being able to administer new developments or requirements.

If the entire IT service is designed according to good design practices, this can help keep cost of ownership to a minimum and improve quality.

Effective implementation of Service Strategy can help organizations to develop the reputation of being reliable and valuable service providers.

Service Operation culminates in the value that each of the other stages of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle provides, and also creates value for customers because of visible operation of the IT service.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

3. Summary

Each stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle has a designated purpose. The Service Strategy stage has the broad scope of determining strategic objectives. Service Design is concerned with designing IT solutions that meet business requirements. Service Transition has the scope of managing all the activities when IT services are packaged, built, tested, and released. The Service Operation stage is responsible for all the processes and activities required to deliver IT services. CSI has the scope of maintaining the overall health of IT Service Management.

Each stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle also provides some value to the business. The Service Strategy stage provides businesses with the ability to be reliable and valuable service providers. The Service Design stage can produce good quality, cost-effective IT services. Service Transition provides value in that it allows for change and adaptation with minimal disruption. The Service Operation stage puts into practice the plans, designs, and improvements of IT services. Finally, the CSI stage can provide tangible value, shown through improvements, benefits, return on investment, and value on investment.

Back to top
 

Lifecycle Functions and Processes 
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize the characteristics of lifecycle functions and processes
 
1. Lifecycle Functions and Processes



Question

Match each ITIL® Service Lifecycle term with its characteristics. Each term may match to more than one characteristic.

Options:
A.Process
B.Function

Targets:
1.Includes a series of dependent activities with a measurable outcome
2.Converts an input into a desired output
3.Consists of a specialized unit that performs a specific type of work
4.Has its own resources

Answer

A process is a service activity that transforms an input, via a series of dependent steps or activities, into a measurable and identified output.

A process applies rules for change control to convert an input into a desired output, through a series of sequential activities.

A function provides structure and stability to an organization by performing a set of duties aimed at achieving a specific set of results. Functions are self-sufficient in that they have their own resources and capabilities.

Functions are groups or units within an organization that are self-contained. Within reason, they obtain resources themselves to carry out tasks internally.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option A

Target 3 = Option B

Target 4 = Option B



Question

Which characteristics are specific to processes?

Options:
1.They are designed to generate specific, measurable outcomes
2.They provide individuals or teams with responsibilities
3.They serve customers by generating desired results
4.They are self-contained, specialized units
5.They occur as responses to specific events
6.They include sequenced sets of activities

Answer

Option 1: Correct. A process is a set of sequenced activities that generates a particular, measurable outcome. It differs from a function, which is a unit that performs specific type of work on an ongoing basis.

Option 2: Incorrect. Processes are activities created to achieve specific results. They do not assign responsibilities to individuals or teams, although a project manager might undertake this as part of a process.

Option 3: Correct. Processes are sets of sequenced, dependent activities that achieve particular results for customers and stakeholders.

Option 4: Incorrect. A function, rather than a process, is a self-contained specialized unit. Processes, which are sets of dependent and sequential activities, assist by creating coordination between functions.

Option 5: Correct. Unlike functions, which are designed to achieve ongoing results in specific areas, processes are initiated in response to specific events or triggers. However, they may include ongoing activities.

Option 6: Correct. Processes are sequences of activities that achieve specific results. They are created during planning and are triggered by particular events.

Correct answer(s):

1. They are designed to generate specific, measurable outcomes
3. They serve customers by generating desired results
5. They occur as responses to specific events
6. They include sequenced sets of activities

Back to top
 

Recognizing the Service Lifecycle Stages
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize the scope, goals and objectives, and Service Lifecycle stage in a given example
 
1. Exercise Overview

In this exercise, you're required to recognize the scope, goals, and objectives of an ITIL® Service Lifecycle stage in a given example, and to define functions and processes.

This involves the following tasks:
•recognizing a stage within the ITIL® Service Lifecycle
•identifying the scope and value of a stage, and
•defining functions and processes in the Service Lifecycle

2. Task 1: Recognizing stages

A bank has decided to expand its range of online banking services by offering an online tax filing service for its customers. This service will provide customers with the tools and assistance for tax filing.



Question

The bank is identifying the opportunities for creating value for itself and for its customers. It is also creating strategies to determine objectives and expectations for the ITservice. 

Which stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle is the organization engaged in?

Options:
1.Service Transition
2.Service Design
3.Service Strategy
4.Continual Service Improvement (CSI)
5.Service Operation

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. Service Transition is the stage in which the designed IT service transitioned to the live environment. 

Option 2: Incorrect. Service Design is the stage in which the IT service is designed and developed based on the principles founded during the Service Strategy stage.

Option 3: Correct. The Service Strategy stage determines the underlying principles and objectives of the IT service, and affects decisions and activities throughout the ITIL® Service Lifecycle. Business opportunities are also identified during this stage.

Option 4: Incorrect. The CSI stage ensures the quality of services and processes throughout the ITIL® Service Lifecycle.

Option 5: Incorrect. Service Operation is the stage in which the process for effectively running IT service are carried out.

Correct answer(s):

3. Service Strategy



Question

The bank is now ready to approach the Service Design stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle. 

What objectives can it hope to achieve through this stage?

Options:
1.Designing measurement methods to evaluate the success of the design processes
2.Continually maintaining the technology that accompanies the service
3.Creating a stable infrastructure that can support further growth
4.Designing of sound services and processes that meet all requirements
5.Reviewing and improving on aspects of each ITIL® Service Lifecycle stage

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The primary objective of the Service Design stage is designing sound IT services and processes. Defining measurement methods to evaluate the success helps to ensure the quality and consistency of those services.

Option 2: Incorrect. This objective is achieved through the Service Operation stage. The Service Design stage is where the technology that accompanies the IT service is designed.

Option 3: Correct. The IT service must be designed so it can be easily be built upon and so that changes can be made to it with minimum disruption. 

Option 4: Correct. The design of plans, processes, infrastructure, environments, applications, and data resources must meet all objectives and business requirements, such as quality, risk, compliance, and security requirements. 

Option 5: Incorrect. This objective is achieved in the Continual Service Improvement (CSI) stage. Service Design is only concerned with the design of the IT service and its associated processes.

Correct answer(s):

1. Designing measurement methods to evaluate the success of the design processes
3. Creating a stable infrastructure that can support further growth
4. Designing of sound services and processes that meet all requirements

3. Task 2: The scope and value of stages

The online tax filing service has been designed, and the organization has implemented effective Service Transition processes. The next step is for the organization to deploy the service and maintain operations – the Service Operation stage.



Question

What are examples of the scope of the Service Operation stage?

Options:
1.Managing an activity that forms part of the IT service
2.Managing technology
3.Recognizing the people involved
4.Developing strategic objectives
5.Maintaining the health of IT Service Management throughout the lifecycle

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The scope of Service Operation consists of all the activities that are required to run and support an IT service.

Option 2: Correct. The scope of Service Operation also includes the management of the technology required to deliver and maintain the IT service, because technology failure would likely result in service failure.

Option 3: Correct. The scope of Service Operation includes recognition of the people who are responsible for the demand, decisions, and management of the IT service.

Option 4: Incorrect. Developing strategic objectives falls under the scope of Service Strategy. Those strategic objectives, however, will influence decisions made during the Service Operation stage.

Option 5: Incorrect. Maintaining the overall health of Service Management falls under the scope of Continual Service Improvement (CSI). Service Operation is concerned with the upkeep of Service Management during the operation of the IT service.

Correct answer(s):

1. Managing an activity that forms part of the IT service
2. Managing technology
3. Recognizing the people involved



Question

The organization is also hoping to use the CSI stage as an overall means of providing value to the organization.

What are examples of value provided by CSI?

Options:
1.Improvements
2.Creation of a quality, cost-effective IT service
3.Return in Investment (ROI)
4.Consolidation of the value of the other stages of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle 
5.Benefits
6.Value on Investment (VOI)

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Improvements are results that show a tangible positive difference when a process has been applied.

Option 2: Incorrect. The creation of a quality, cost-effective IT service is a value attributed to the Service Design stage. The CSI stage can help to improve aspects of creating the service, or can help keep costs at a minimum throughout the Service Lifecycle.

Option 3: Correct. ROI is the difference between the benefit and the cost of the benefit, divided by the cost of the benefit. It is expressed as a percentage.

Option 4: Incorrect. The value of consolidating and visibly displaying the values of other stages is attributed to the Service Operation stage. 

Option 5: Correct. Benefits are measurable results, and those results are achieved when improvements have occurred.

Option 6: Correct. VOI is the additional value that is derived from benefits gained. This additional value can include non-monetary gains or gains that are realized over a longer timeframe.

Correct answer(s):

1. Improvements
3. Return in Investment (ROI)
5. Benefits
6. Value on Investment (VOI)

4. Task 3: Functions and processes

At each stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle, the bank will benefit from applying functions and processes.



Question

Match each term to its definition. One of the definitions isn't valid.

Options:
A.Function
B.Process

Targets:
1.Self-contained, specialized units that perform a specific type of work and create specific results
2.An organized, measurable set of activities that has been created in order to achieve a specific result
3.A set of connected behaviors, responsibilities, and activities appointed to a single person or team

Answer

Functions are used to provide structure and stability to organizations and are self-contained in that they have their own resources and capabilities. 

Processes have four distinct characteristics – they're measurable, achieve a specific result, supply results to customers and stakeholders, and occur because of a response to a specific event or trigger.

Functions and processes are not in themselves sets of behaviors and responsibilities. Functions are units that perform ongoing activities to fulfill recurring needs in an organization. Processes are sequences of dependent steps initiated in response to particular events to achieve required, measurable outcomes.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 =No Option Specified.



Question

The bank will benefit from effective and efficient processes and functions. 

What are some requirements for them to become effective and efficient?

Options:
1.They require specialization to become effective and efficient
2.They require isolation to become effective and efficient
3.They require feedback and control
4.They are self-regulating and require little control to be effective

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Functions and processes both benefit from specialization across the ITIL® Service Lifecycle. Functions achieve this by performing specific, recurring work, whereas processes achieve this by clearly defining the desired outcomes, identifying the inputs, and defining the activities required for the transformation.

Option 2: Incorrect. Functions and processes require coordination, and although they perform different activities, they need to be aligned to ensure there are no conflicts.

Option 3: Correct. Functions and processes require feedback to determine whether they are operating effectively, and control mechanisms should be applied to ensure effective management.

Option 4: Incorrect. To ensure effective management throughout the ITIL® Service Lifecycle, it is important that effective coordination and control is applied to functions and processes.

Correct answer(s):

1. They require specialization to become effective and efficient
3. They require feedback and control

A stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle has been identified, and the objectives of the Service Design stage have been identified. Elements of the scope of the Service Operation were recognized, as well as examples of value that the CSI stage provides. The various activities that form part of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle were defined and the requirements and features of these activities were identified.

Back to top
 

© 2017 Skillsoft Ireland Limited
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
 
Print 

Course Transcript
 

ITIL® 2011 Edition Foundation: Service Strategy Fundamentals
  

Using Service Strategies to Create Value

1. Service Strategy Concepts

2. Create Value with Assets and Services

3. Automate Service Processes

4. Applying Service Strategies

Service Strategy Processes

1. Strategy Management for IT Services

2. The Strategy Management Process for IT Services

3. Service Portfolio Management

4. Managing Service Strategies
   

Service Strategy Concepts
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•describe the basic Service Strategy concepts
 
1. Basic Service Strategy concepts

An IT organization has to overcome numerous challenges if it's to maintain a strategic advantage over its competitors.

As a result, it's vital for IT service providers to regularly evaluate and optimize the services they provide, in light of their strategic goals.

Service Strategy is one of the stages of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle that helps you recognize how to use IT services and service automation to create added value for your organization.



Graphic

The five stages of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle are Service Strategy, Service Design, Service Transition, Service Operation, and Continual Service Improvement.

Before you can understand ITIL® Service Strategy, you need to be familiar with various basic concepts:
• strategy 
• customers 
• services 
• the Service Portfolio 
• service providers, and 
• stakeholders 

2. Strategy and customers

At the most basic level, a strategy is a plan that outlines how an organization will meet a designed set of objectives.

However, an organization's strategy is rarely as simple as a single plan. It's usually a complex set of plans that outline how the organization intends to move from one situation or state to another, given a number of internal and external variables.

A strategy defines how a service provider will use services to enable its customers to achieve the business outcomes they require – and so in the process meet its own objectives.

ITIL® Service Strategy focuses specifically on IT strategy, which defines how an organization intends to use and organize technology to meet business objectives.



Question

Which description of ITIL® strategy is most accurate?

Options:
1.It focuses on how an organization intends to organize itself to meet its business objectives
2.It outlines how an organization will use and organize technology to accomplish its business objectives
3.It defines how a customer will use services to achieve the business outcomes of its organization

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. An ITIL® strategy focuses on defining how to use technology to meet customers' business objectives. It doesn't relate generally to the structure or direction of an organization.

Option 2: Correct. An ITIL® strategy specifically focuses on defining how to use IT services to achieve business goals.

Option 3: Incorrect. An ITIL® strategy defines how a service provider will use IT services to enable customers to achieve the business outcomes they require.

Correct answer(s):

2. It outlines how an organization will use and organize technology to accomplish its business objectives

Customers are those who buy goods or services and establish service level targets. They may be internal or external to an organization.

Internal customers are people or departments who work in the same organization as the IT service provider. For example, a Marketing Department that uses the IT services provided by an IT Department in the same organization is an internal customer. If IT charges for its services, the money paid is recorded as an internal transaction in the organization's accounting system and isn't regarded as revenue.

External customers work externally to the IT organization, for example, for a different organization from the IT service provider. When the IT service provider charges for services, it's paid with "real" money, or through an exchange of services or products.

Customers aren't necessarily the same as users, who actually use IT services. In other words, those who purchase IT services aren't necessarily the same people who use them.

Other differences between internal and external customers relate to
links with business strategy and objectivesWhen customers are internal, they share the same overall organizational objectives and strategy as the service provider. 

When customers are external, the service provider needs to determine what the customers' business objectives are in order to provide required levels of performance and functionality. Customer satisfaction and retention are a priority.
cost of serviceThe aim of providing services to internal customers is to provide an optimal balance between the cost and quality of the service, and so to support the organization in achieving its objectives.

In contrast, the actual cost of providing an IT service isn't normally disclosed to an external customer. The aim of the service provider is to maximize profits while still remaining competitive with pricing.
involvement in service designWhen customers are internal, service design depends on enterprise policies, resource constraints, and expected Return on Investment (ROI). Customers tend to be involved in generating detailed design specifications, often covering both the functionality and manageability of services – given that both of these impact the required level of investment from the organization.

External customers are typically less involved in service design, and the service provider doesn't typically get involved in calculating the customer's ROI.
involvement in service transition and operation, andInternal customers are often involved in building, testing, and deploying services. Customers and IT managers have to assess and authorize changes. In addition, the customers may be involved in defining deployment procedures, mechanisms, and schedules.

External customers aren't generally involved in detailed design and testing of services, and may not be aware how these processes are managed. Involvement in deployment is usually carefully scripted, and customers are trained in how to execute their deployment activities within their own organization.
drivers for improvementWhen customers are internal, the objectives of business units, and the impact of services on these, are the drivers for improvement. The aim is generally to optimize the balance between cost and quality. Emphasis may also be placed on improving the way services are designed, delivered, and managed. 

When customers are external, the need to retain customers and remain competitive drives improvements. Changes that impact pricing and profitability drive measures that reduce cost while providing competitive service levels.

3. Services and the Service Portfolio

Services are a means of delivering value to customers. They facilitate the outcomes customers want to achieve, while enabling them to pass specific costs and risks for designing and maintaining the services to an external service provider.

Using a service provider also enables customers to avoid constraints associated with regulations, technical limitations, and lack of funding or capacity.

The IT service provider usually has specialized capabilities for dealing with associated costs and risks of the IT service. In addition, the provider can typically spread these costs across more than one customer.

Like customers, IT services can be either
internal, orInternal IT services are delivered between departments or business units in the same organization. They directly support business processes that other internal business units manage.

Internal customer-facing services generally rely on an integrated set of supporting services. Customer usually don't need to see or understand these services.
Internal IT services may, for example, be provided by an organization's IT Department to the same organization's HR, Marketing, and Accounting Departments. externalExternal IT services are delivered to external customers. For example, an IT organization may provide public Internet access at an airport.

An external customer-facing service is designed to help external customers meet business objectives. It may be provided free of charge, or be billed directly to the person or organization using the service. In other cases, the service may be provided free to the customer but be paid for by a third party, such as an advertiser or sponsor.
External IT services may be provided by the IT Department in one organization to multiple other organizations. 
It's important to distinguish between internal and external services so you can differentiate between services that support internal activities and those that help achieve business outcomes.

The difference may not appear to be significant at first because the activities involved in delivering each type of service may be similar. However, it's important to recognize that internal services have to be linked to external services before their contribution to business outcomes can be understood and measured. This is especially important when measuring the ROI of services.

It's also important to make the distinction between IT services and products.

For example, users are provided with desktop computers. Each desktop computer is built and configured according to strict specifications, and must be maintained at an approved configuration baseline to perform correctly.

But note that these computers are simply a means for the service provider to deliver services to the users. They aren't services in and of themselves. If an IT organization only builds and delivers computers, it's not a service provider, but a computer manufacturer or reseller.

Although IT may view certain configuration items as products, these must be linked to the services they're used to provide and the outcomes that the customer achieves by using them.



Question

Match each Service Strategy concept to the appropriate example.

Options:
A.Internal customer
B.External customer
C.Internal service
D.External service

Targets:
1.The Accounting Department of your organization, which uses IT services
2.A financial advisor who needs to find a reasonably priced host for his company's web site
3.A sales management system that's implemented to facilitate more efficient tracking of your organization's transactions
4.Wireless network access that's provided at a public library

Answer

Internal customers are individuals or departments in the same organization as the IT service provider and that use its services.

External customers, like the financial advisor, are employed by a different organization from the IT service provider, and pay for the use of its services.

Internal IT services are delivered between departments or business units in the same organization. They directly support business processes.

External IT services are delivered to external customers, who depend on them to achieve their business outcomes.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

A Service Portfolio documents the commitments and investments made by a service provider across all customers and market spaces. In other words, the scope of the Service Portfolio is the complete set of services that a service provider manages.

It records present contractual commitments, new service development, and ongoing service improvement plans.

The Service Portfolio also covers third-party services, which are an integral part of service offerings to customers. Some third-party services are visible to the customers – like on-site router configuration services for example. Others, like remote network monitoring services, are not.

The Service Portfolio represents all the resources presently engaged or being released in various stages of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle. Each stage requires resources for completion of projects, initiatives, and contracts. This is a very important governance aspect of Service Portfolio Management.



Graphic

A diagram shows that a Service Portfolio includes the Service Pipeline, Service Catalog, and retired services. It links to a Configuration Management System, which in turn links to the customer portfolio, application portfolio, Supplier and Contract Management Information System, customer agreement portfolio, project portfolio, and CMDB.

The Service Portfolio should have the right mix of services in the Service Pipeline and Service Catalog to secure the financial viability of the service provider. The Service Catalog, however, is the only part of the portfolio that lists services that recover costs or earn profits.

4. Service providers and stakeholders

Service providers supply IT services to customers. They can take the form of
internal service providersAn internal service provider is embedded within a business unit. There may be several internal service providers within an organization.
As an example, Marketing, Accounting, HR, and Operations departments may each include their own IT service providers. shared services units, andA shared services unit is a type of internal service provider that provides shared IT services to more than one business unit.
For instance, one IT Department in an organization may provide services to HR, Marketing, and Accounting departments. external service providersAn external service provider provides IT services to external customers.
For example, an IT Department may provide services to multiple, external organizations.  
It's possible for a single organization to include all three types of IT service providers. For example, the organization's Accounting Department might include a dedicated IT unit. The organization may also include an IT Department that provides services to the organization as a whole, and to external customers as well.

Many IT organizations that traditionally provided services only to internal customers find that they now need to deal directly with external users because of the different types of IT services that they provide.

ITIL® Service Strategy provides guidance on how an IT organization should interact with these users, and on who owns and manages the relationship with them.

Stakeholders are all those who have an interest in an IT organization, its projects, or its services, and in the activities, targets, resources, or deliverables from Service Management.

External stakeholders may include organizations, customers, consumers, users, partners, shareholders, owners, and suppliers.

Internal stakeholders – or those within a service provider organization – include the groups that deliver services and those that use them.



Question

Match each Service Strategy concept to the appropriate description.

Options:
A.Service Portfolio
B.Service provider
C.Stakeholder

Targets:
1.The complete set of services managed by a provider, including past, present, and potential future services 
2.An entity that supplies IT services to customers
3.An entity that has an interest in available IT services

Answer

The Service Portfolio represents all the services that a supplier – including retired services, those currently being provided, and proposed new services – manages. It also includes details of third-party services used by the provider and ongoing service improvement plans.

An IT service provider has the IT resources to deliver required services to customers, which may be internal or external.

Stakeholders are those who have an interest in available IT services. They can include organizations, service providers themselves and their employees, customers, consumers, users, partners, shareholders, owners, and suppliers.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

5. Summary

ITIL® Service Strategy focuses on the strategic importance of using IT services and service automation to create added value for your organization. Significant Service Strategy concepts include internal and external customers, internal and external services, the Service Portfolio, the service provider, and stakeholders. 

A strategy defines how an organization intends to use and organize technology to meet business objectives. Internal customers work in the same organization as the IT provider and use its services. External customers work in other organizations and pay for the use of the IT services.

Internal services are provided to business units in the same organization to support business processes. External services are provided to external customers, who use them to achieve business outcomes. The Service Portfolio details the complete set of services on offer. 

An IT service provider has the IT resources to deliver the required services, and stakeholders are all those with an interest in the available IT services.

Back to top
 

Create Value with Assets and Services
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize how organizations use assets to create and add value
 
1. Identifying factors that determine value

For any organization, deciding on a strategy to serve its customers is of utmost importance. A strategic perspective starts with understanding competitors and their services. This enables the organization to review its position and provide differentiated value to its customers.

Adding value to a service involves providing differentiated value to the customer and ensures that an organization's service does not become subject to competitive forces.

In some instances, value can be quantified in financial terms. In other instances, value is determined by a number of nonfinancial factors, such as



Graphic

A description of the What determines value? diagram follows: Business outcomes is one of four variables that determine value. The other three attributes are perceptions, preferences, and attributes, all of which are linked. Description ends.
customer perceptionsCustomers' preferences are influenced by perception. In turn, customer perceptions are influenced by the attributes of an IT service that indicate value, previous experience, and the capabilities and capacity of competitors and their products. In addition, a customer's perception may be influenced by self image or position in the market. 

An example of an influence on customer perceptions is the previous experience customers have had with a similar IT service or service provider and its effect on their business outcomes.the reference value of a service, andCustomer perceptions of value are influenced by their expectations. Customers base their perceptions of the value added by a service on reference values. These reference values could be very vaguely defined or they may be facts. It's important for an IT service provider to identify and understand what their customers' reference values are. This can be achieved through dialog with customers or research and analysis of the market.

An example of a reference value is the baseline cost that a customer would incur by providing a service internally instead of obtaining it from an external service provider. Another example is the level of service provided by a competitor.the economic value of a serviceThe economic value of a service to a customer is the sum of the customer's reference value and the net difference in value the customer associates with the service. The positive difference comes from the service's utility and warranty. Negative difference comes from losses suffered by the customer as a result of utilizing the service. 

An example of the economic value of the service is an increased profit margin as a result of the utilization of the service.
The modern change of focus to business outcomes represents a shift of emphasis from the efficient utilization of resources to the effective realization of outcomes.

Because customers pay for the fulfillment of their needs, it is imperative that service providers know their customers' needs and meet those needs. It is also important for service providers to recognize that what customers value is often different from what an organization believes it provides.



Question

What factors are likely to provide value for the customer?

Options:
1.Previous experiences
2.Economic value of a service
3.Reference values
4.Providing similar added value to that of competitors
5.Providing more negative differences

Answer

Option 1: Correct. A customer's perceptions of value are influenced by indication of value, previous experiences, and the relative endowment of competitors and their products.

Option 2: Correct. The economic value of a service to a customer is the sum of the customer's reference value and the net difference in value offered by the service.

Option 3: Correct. Customers often base their perceptions of value added by a service on reference values. These may be vaguely defined or factual.

Option 4: Incorrect. Adding differentiated value to a product ensures that it does not become subject to competitive forces.

Option 5: Incorrect. Negative differences comes from losses suffered by the customer from utilizing the service. Therefore, negative differences would not add value for the customer.

Correct answer(s):

1. Previous experiences
2. Economic value of a service
3. Reference values

The three guidelines for uncovering key business outcomes that add value for the customer are to
1. look from the customer's perspective 
2. recognize that value can be provided at different levels, and 
3. understand the positive effect that customers perceive a service can have on their business outcomes 

Being able to identify which outcomes matter and how they are ranked in terms of customer perception requires a marketing mindset. This means that instead of focusing inward on production processes, service providers need to look from the customer's perspective to understand a customer's perception.

To understand the customer's perspective, an organization needs to ask the following questions:
• What is our business? 
• Who are our customers? 
• What is it that customers value? 
• Who depends on our services? 
• How do customers use our services? 
• Why are our services valuable to customers? 

It is important for an organization to recognize that value can be provided at different levels. Of these levels, it's the net difference that matters most.

A service provider can differentiate itself from an equipment vendor through added value, even though it uses the vendor's equipment as assets.

To a service provider's customers, the outcomes that matter depend on the positive effect they perceive a service can have on their business outcome and activities. The extent of this value depends on customers' perception of the fitness for purpose and fitness for use of a service.

The customer's perception of fitness for purpose depends on utility – how a service can be used to influence their activities and business outcomes.

A service's warranty is its fitness for use. Its fitness for use is dependent on it being available in sufficient capacity when it is needed to provide business continuity.



Question

How do you uncover key business outcomes that add value?

Options:
1.Look from the customer's perspective
2.Recognize that you can provide value at different levels
3.Recognize how a service can influence business outcomes for customers
4.Identify customers' previous experience with similar services
5.Determine the economic value of the service

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Looking at a service from a customer's perspective helps an organization identify which outcomes matter and how they should be ranked in terms of customer perceptions of value.

Option 2: Correct. It's important to recognize that value can be added at many different levels, and that value from each of these levels makes up the net difference to customers.

Option 3: Correct. To customers, value depends on the positive effect that a service or product can have on their activities and business outcomes. Factors that influence this value include the customers' perceptions of the fitness for purpose and fitness for use of a product or service.

Option 4: Incorrect. Identifying customers' previous experience with similar services can help you determine customers' likely perceptions about a service or product. However, it doesn't help you identify business outcomes that add value.

Option 5: Incorrect. Determining the economic value of a service helps you determine the value added for the customer. However, it doesn't help you identify the key business outcomes that add value.

Correct answer(s):

1. Look from the customer's perspective
2. Recognize that you can provide value at different levels
3. Recognize how a service can influence business outcomes for customers

2. Using assets to create and add value

One of the ways service providers add value to goods and services is through the use of assets. There are two main types of assets – resources and capabilities.

Resources take the form of direct inputs into the production or service delivery. It is often easier to gain resources than capabilities.

There are four exclusive examples of resources.
InformationInformation assets are collections and patterns of data – such as information about customers, contracts, services, and events – that can be applied in certain contexts. Some examples of information assets include records, messages, and graphs. 
InfrastructureInfrastructure assets enable other assets to operate. Infrastructure is typically defined in terms of layers, in relation to the assets they support. Some examples of IT infrastructure assets include servers, computers, storage systems, network devices, telecommunication equipment, and monitoring systems. 
ApplicationsApplication assets are used to automate, codify, enable, enhance, maintain, or mimic the properties, functions, and activities of other types of assets. They typically consume, produce, and maintain other types of knowledge and information assets. Some examples of application assets include accounting software, voicemail, encryption devices, inventory tracking, electronic design automation, and bar code scanners. 
Financial capitalFinancial assets are required to support the ownership and utilization of all other resources and capabilities. Some examples of financial capital assets include cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and receivables that can be converted to cash. 

Capabilities are the components that make up an organization's ability to use and transform resources in a way that adds value to services or products.

Capabilities are often experience-driven, knowledge-intensive, and information-based. They lie within the organization's people, processes, and technologies.

There are four exclusive examples of important capabilities.
ManagementThe management capability determines an organization's ability to coordinate all other assets. Some examples of management assets include leadership, administration, performance measures, and incentives. 
OrganizationThe organization capability involves the coordination of various other assets that carry out organizational activities. Some examples of organization capabilities include networks, storage systems, point-of-sale terminals, databases, and hardware stores. 
ProcessThe process capability comprises methods, procedures, and routines for controlling an organization's activities. Process assets are often embedded in software applications and are very dynamic. Examples of process capabilities include order fulfillment, accounts receivables, incident management, and testing. 
KnowledgeThe knowledge capability is an accumulation of awareness, experience, information, and intellectual property. It can be acquired and enhanced through experience, observation, and training. It is important for organizations to retain their explicit forms of knowledge. Some examples of knowledge capabilities include policies, plans, designs, configurations, architectures, and process definitions. 

People within an organization are both resource and capability assets. They bring the capacity for creativity, analysis, perception, learning, judgement, leadership, communication, coordination, empathy, and trust to an organization.

Because people learn and adapt, they are versatile. People are the only asset type that can use knowledge, experience, and skills to create, combine, and deploy all other asset types.

Capabilities are harder to acquire than resources and are typically developed over time. It is especially important for an organization to develop distinctive capabilities, which can be enhanced through experiences gained from a variety of customers, market spaces, contracts, and services.

Similarly, experience can be enhanced by solving problems, handling situations, managing risks, and analyzing failures.

For example, combining experience in a particular market space with infrastructure in key areas results in distinctive capabilities that would be difficult for competitors to offer.

An organization's productive capacity is completely dependent on its resources. Therefore, capabilities without adequate resources cannot produce value.

Similarly, organizations depend on their capabilities. Two competing IT service providers that have similar resources but different capabilities will differ in actual performance.

For example, management capabilities are required to set up and maintain the IT infrastructure needed to ensure effective IT service delivery.

Suppose an IT organization provides a chain of banks with an online service desk for handling customer queries. The contract is due to be renewed and the IT organization is reassessing the service it provides the banks.

First the IT service provider conducts extensive surveys and communicates with managers at the banks to determine what their reference values are. This enables the service provider to determine what the banks perceive as added value.

Next the service provider asks relevant bank employees questions to determine the business outcomes that add value for the banks. The answers help the service provider determine the banks' core business, its customers, customer values, and ways in which customers typically use the IT service.

Finally, the service provider redeploys certain key assets to better meet the banks' needs. It also deploys a new software application for monitoring customer calls and agent performance. This will help the service provider monitor and improve the service it provides on an ongoing basis.

Question Set



An IT organization offers hotel reservations for a national chain of hotels through its web site, which provides access to hotels in major cities around the world. The contract with the hotel is due to be renewed and the IT organization is re-evaluating its service with the aim of providing more value to the customer.

Question 1 of 3



Question

The organization is analyzing its position to uncover factors that determine how the hotel chain managers perceive the value of the online reservations service.

Which of these are possible considerations?

Options:
1.The hotel managers' perception of the service, based on the hotels' business relationships so far
2.The hotel managers' perceived or actual position in the market
3.The cost to the hotel of providing the services internally
4.The customers that the hotel serves

Answer

Option 1: Correct. A customer's perception of value is often based on their perception of outcomes on business performance.

Option 2: Correct. Customers often base their perceptions of a service's value on reference values, such as their perceived or actual market position. It is critical for a service provider to determine what the customer's reference values are.

Option 3: Correct. Determining the cost of the service will help the service provider determine the service's economic value to the hotels.

Option 4: Incorrect. Identifying the customers that the hotel aims to serve will help the organization identify which outcomes matter and how they are ranked in terms of the hotel customers' perceptions. However, it won't necessarily make it clear how the hotel managers judge the value of the service.

Correct answer(s):

1. The hotel managers' perception of the service, based on the hotels' business relationships so far
2. The hotel managers' perceived or actual position in the market
3. The cost to the hotel of providing the services internally

Question 2 of 3



Question

The IT organization wants to uncover the hotels' key business outcomes that matter.

How can the IT organization do this?

Options:
1.Analyze the online reservation service from the hotels' perspective to determine what is valuable to the hotels and why
2.Identify the different levels at which the online reservation service can add value for the hotels
3.Determine how the hotels perceive the effects of the service on their reservation processes
4.Identify who is involved in creating the online reservation service
5.Identify how the online reservation service is operated

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Being able to identify which outcomes matter and how they are ranked in terms of the customer will ensure that the service provider delivers a service that is relevant and fit for purpose.

Option 2: Correct. The organization should identify the added value its service can provide the customer at many different levels. Value added at each level will contribute to the net difference in value experienced by the customer.

Option 3: Correct. To a service provider's customers, the value of a service depends in part on its economic effect on their business outcomes. This depends on the fitness for purpose – or utility – of a service and on its fitness for use - or warranty.

Option 4: Incorrect. Identifying who is involved in creating the service and how the service is delivered may help the IT organization improve its asset utilization. However, this doesn't relate to improving value or identifying the business outcomes that matters most to the hotels.

Option 5: Incorrect. Identifying how the service is operated can help the IT organization improve its asset utilization. However, it won't help the organization uncover the business outcomes that matters for the hotels.

Correct answer(s):

1. Analyze the online reservation service from the hotels' perspective to determine what is valuable to the hotels and why
2. Identify the different levels at which the online reservation service can add value for the hotels
3. Determine how the hotels perceive the effects of the service on their reservation processes

Question 3 of 3



Question

How could the IT organization use its assets to increase the value of its service to the hotels?

Options:
1.Provide leadership for exploiting advantages over its competitors
2.Purchase new software to improve web site interactions with customers
3.Increase support staff to resolve queries faster
4.Increase the service's utility and warranty
5.Assess the hotel managers' perceptions of the service

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Leadership is an example of the management capability. Management is required to coordinate all other assets in a way that adds value to a service.

Option 2: Correct. Software is an example of an application resource, which can be used to automate, enhance, or maintain service processes.

Option 3: Correct. People are highly adaptable, versatile resources that use knowledge, experience, and skills to utilize other resources. Increasing support staff may add value for the hotels by improving the efficiency of the service provided.

Option 4: Incorrect. Service utility and warranty are not examples of assets. However, these are considerations that the IT organization should consider from the perspective of the hotels when trying to improve the value of its service.

Option 5: Incorrect. The organization does need to determine how the hotels perceive the value of its service and how value could be added. This should guide the organization's attempts to add value to its service. However, it isn't an example of how the organization can use its assets to do this.

Correct answer(s):

1. Provide leadership for exploiting advantages over its competitors
2. Purchase new software to improve web site interactions with customers
3. Increase support staff to resolve queries faster

3. Summary

Customers' perceptions of the value added by a service depend on factors such as the customers' outcomes and perceptions, the reference values they use, and the economic value to them of the service. An organization can uncover key business outcomes that add value by looking from the customer's perspective, by understanding that value can be added at different levels, and by understanding the positive effects that its service can have on customers' business outcomes.

An organization can add value through proper use of its assets, including its resources and capabilities. Resources comprise information, infrastructure, applications, and financial assets. Capabilities comprise management, organization, processes, and knowledge. People within an organization represent both resources and capabilities.

Back to top
 

Automate Service Processes
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize how to implement service automation guidelines
•identify the advantages of service automation
 
1. Advantages of service automation

Service automation can have a direct impact on the performance of service assets. These assets include the resources and capabilities that an organization uses to provide services and add value for customers.

When implemented correctly, service automation can improve the quality of delivered services, reduce costs, reduce risks, and resolve production trade-offs.

These are some examples of areas in which service management can benefit from service automation:
• design and modeling 
• service cataloging 
• pattern recognition and analysis 
• classification, prioritization, and routing 
• detection and monitoring, and 
• optimization 

Some advantages of service automation include
adjusting capacity to demandThe automated resources can easily adjust capacity to demand, for example by responding to variations in demand volumes. For example, service automation may make it unnecessary to adjust the number of staff members in an organization based on changing production requirements. Automation also enables faster identification of changes in demand.handling capacity with fewer restrictionsAutomated resources can handle capacity with fewer restrictions on time of access – they can easily respond to demand and continue providing services across time zones or after hours.providing a basis for measuring and improving service processesAutomated resources that require limited and consistent human input provide a good basis for measuring and improving service processes. This is because they require less varied human interactions. They can help determine how varying levels of knowledge and skills impact service quality.enabling complex processes, andService automation enables complex processes, such as optimization, scheduling, routing, and allocation of resources through the use of computing power. These processes may be beyond human capabilities or may be much less time consuming and more accurate as a result of automation.providing a means for capturing knowledgeService automation provides a means for capturing the knowledge required for monitoring, analyzing, and improving a service process. This captured knowledge can then be easily distributed throughout an organization.


Question

Identify the advantages of service automation.

Options:
1.Provides a means for capturing knowledge
2.Enables complex processes
3.Enables the measuring and improvement of service processes
4.Enables handling of capacity with fewer time restrictions
5.Enables easier adjustment to demand
6.Eliminates the need for management capabilities in an organization
7.Reduces an organization's need of resources

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Service automation enables an organization to capture information and knowledge about its processes and service delivery, and to distribute this information easily. This can lead to process improvements, cost reductions, and improved service quality.

Option 2: Correct. Service automation enables complex processes such as optimization, scheduling, and routing to be performed quickly and accurately. These processes may be beyond human capabilities.

Option 3: Correct. Service automation can make it easier for an organization to measure and improve service quality by maintaining a clearly defined, constant level of human interaction.

Option 4: Correct. Service automation handles capacity with fewer restrictions on time of access. For example, automated systems can continue providing services across different time zones and outside normal working hours.

Option 5: Correct. Service automation makes it easier for organizations to adjust service processes based on variations in demand volumes. Automation also enables faster identification of changes in demand.

Option 6: Incorrect. If implemented correctly, service automation can improve service management by making processes more efficient and responsive. However, it doesn't eliminate or reduce the need for management capabilities in an organization.

Option 7: Incorrect. When implemented correctly, service automation has a direct input on the performance of an organization's resources and capabilities. However, it doesn't necessarily reduce the resources needed to add value to a service.

Correct answer(s):

1. Provides a means for capturing knowledge
2. Enables complex processes
3. Enables the measuring and improvement of service processes
4. Enables handling of capacity with fewer time restrictions
5. Enables easier adjustment to demand

2. Service automation guidelines

If service automation is applied incorrectly, it can create more problems than it solves. So it's important that organizations follow basic guidelines to ensure that service automation is implemented correctly.

To ensure that service automation is implemented correctly, organizations need to
simplify service processes before automationSimplifying processes before automating them helps reduce variations in performance and makes the automation process easier. However, simplifying a process should not affect its outcome or usefulness – it should affect only the intermediary tasks and interactions.clarify the needed flow of activitiesClarifying the flow of activities needed to support service automation helps ensure that service agents and users provide the required inputs for service transactions. This involves determining the needed allocation of tasks, the interactions that will occur, and the stages at which information is needed. Automation enables clarification through messages, interactive terminals, and web sites.minimize users' contact with underlying processes, andMinimizing the contact users have with underlying processes reduces the possibility of introducing variations and makes service processes appear seamless to users. Organizations need to apply encapsulation and modularity to simplify the user interfaces they provide.exercise caution when automating complex tasks and interactionsOrganizations should exercise caution when automating complex tasks and interactions that aren't simple or routine in terms of inputs, resources, and outcomes. Simple, recurring tasks and interactions are easier to automate than less consistent, complex ones.


Question

What guidelines should you follow before applying service automation?

Options:
1.Simplify service processes before automating them
2.Clarify the needed flow of activities
3.Reduce the contact users have with underlying processes
4.Focus on automating simple processes 
5.Provide a basis for measuring and improving service processes
6.Adjust service processes to cater better for demand

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Simplifying service processes before automating them reduces the entry points for performance variations, as well as making the automation process easier.

Option 2: Correct. Clarifying the flow of activities needed to support automation ensures that service agents and users provide the required inputs for service transactions.

Option 3: Correct. Reducing the contact users have with underlying processes helps reduce the potential for introducing human errors or variations.

Option 4: Correct. Complex or infrequently performed tasks are difficult to automate. Instead, organizations should focus on automating simple, recurring processes that are performed consistently.

Option 5: Incorrect. Once implemented, service automation may provide a basis for measuring and improving service processes. This is a possible result of automating services, rather than a guideline for doing so.

Option 6: Incorrect. Before automating a service, it's important to simplify associated processes where possible. However, it's service automation itself – rather than prior adjustments to processes – that's likely to enable easier adjustment to variations in demand.

Correct answer(s):

1. Simplify service processes before automating them
2. Clarify the needed flow of activities
3. Reduce the contact users have with underlying processes
4. Focus on automating simple processes 

Suppose an IT organization recently implemented a system for automating customer call center operations by following the service automation guidelines.
Simplify service processesThe organization simplified the processes required to handle customer calls before designing the software tool. This involved removing some of the unnecessary manual processes performed when logging customer calls. 
Clarify flow of activitiesThe organization clarified the flow of activities required to handle customer calls. This involved identifying the types of information required from the customer and the type of information service agents had to provide. 
Minimize users' contactThe organization ensured that its automated system required minimal user interaction. This helped prevent unexpected variations in user responses and eliminated unnecessary steps likely to frustrate customers. 
Exercise cautionThe organization exercised caution and chose not to automate the full process for handling complaint calls because of the complexity of this process, with large variations in needed responses and with associated tasks involving reporting and tracking. Instead, the organization focused on automating simpler, more repetitive tasks to improve staff efficiency and accuracy. This helped ensure that service automation would add real benefits and not have a negative impact on existing service levels. 



Question

An IT organization wants to electronically automate car rentals for a national chain of car rental agencies through its web site.

Match each service automation guideline with an example of how the organization can implement it.

Options:
A.Exercise caution when automating complex tasks and interactions
B.Clarify the needed flow of activities
C.Minimize users' contact with underlying processes
D.Simplify service processes before automating them

Targets:
1.Choose to automate only some of the simpler routine tasks involved in car rental
2.Identify the key steps in renting a car and the information that the customer needs to provide
3.Limit staff and customer contact with the system used to process customer rentals
4.Reduce the documentation the customer needs to provide when renting a car

Answer

Identifying simpler routine tasks will help the organization target appropriate processes for automation.

Identifying the key steps and information required to rent a car will help the organization clarify the flow of activities and information requirements.

Limiting users' contact with underlying steps, like those used to process customer orders, reduces the potential for variations or errors, and simplifies the system for its users.

Simplifying service processes where possible – for example by limiting the documentation that customers need to provide – makes them easier to automate by reducing the potential for variations.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

3. Summary

Service automation can directly affect the performance of an organization's assets. It can result in better services, reduce costs and risks, and resolve production trade-offs. Service automation makes it easier to adjust to variations demand, handles capacity with fewer time restrictions, provides a basis for measuring processes, enables complex processes, and provides a means for capturing knowledge.

To implement service automation successfully, you need to simplify service processes before automating them, clarify the needed flow of activities, minimize users' contact with underlying processes, and exercise caution before automating complex tasks and interactions.

Back to top
 

Applying Service Strategies
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize how to use basic Service Strategies to add value
 
1. Exercise Overview

In this exercise, you're required to recognize how to use strategies to add value to services.

This involves the following tasks:
•identifying how to create value through services, and
•recognizing guidelines for successful service automation

2. Creating value through services

An IT service provider delivers an e-auction service to various customers through a web site. The service provider is currently determining how to add value to the service it provides.



Question

Which factors are likely to determine the customers' direct perception of the value of the e-auction service?

Options:
1.Previous experience with e-auction services
2.The service provider's asset utilization while delivering the e-auction service
3.The type of routers and servers used to provide the e-auction service
4.The economic benefit of the e-auction service for the customers
5.The customers' reference values

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Customer perceptions of value are influenced by factors such as their previous experience of similar services.

Option 2: Incorrect. Asset utilization affects the way value is added to a service. However, it does not directly affect the customer's perception of service value.

Option 3: Incorrect. The hardware used to provide the service may add to service value by changing the way an organization utilizes its assets. However, it does not directly affect the customer's perception of service value.

Option 4: Correct. The economic value of the service to the customer is the sum of their reference values and the net difference in value offered by the e-auction service. The customers' perception of the value of the service will be influenced by the service's economic effect on their business outcomes.

Option 5: Correct. The customers' perceptions of the value added by the e-auction service will depend in part on their reference values. These may be vaguely defined or factual. For example, customers may use the potential cost of providing the online service internally as a reference value.

Correct answer(s):

1. Previous experience with e-auction services
4. The economic benefit of the e-auction service for the customers
5. The customers' reference values



Question

What techniques can the service provider use to uncover the customers' key business outcomes in relation to the e-auction service?

Options:
1.Look at the service from the customers' perspectives
2.Recognize the different levels at which value for the customers can be added
3.Identify the positive effects that the customers believe the service can have on their business outcomes
4.Improve the utility and warranty of the e-auction service
5.Automate additional aspects of the e-auction service

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Looking at a service from the customer's perspective helps a service provider identify which outcomes matter and how they are ranked in terms of customer perception.

Option 2: Correct. Recognizing that value can be added at different levels helps a service provider optimize the net difference in value that its service provides.

Option 3: Correct. Understanding the positive effects that customers perceive a service can have on their business outcomes helps an organization improve its service's fitness for use and fitness for purpose.

Option 4: Incorrect. The service provider needs to identify the key business outcomes for its customers as part of the process that leads to providing improved service utility and warranty. Service improvements are a result of this process, rather than a tool for uncovering customers' requirements.

Option 5: Incorrect. Service automation may help an organization better utilize its assets and improve its performance. However, it doesn't relate to identifying important business outcomes for customers.

Correct answer(s):

1. Look at the service from the customers' perspectives
2. Recognize the different levels at which value for the customers can be added
3. Identify the positive effects that the customers believe the service can have on their business outcomes



Question

Match the two factors that determine a customer's perception of the value of a service to its description.

Options:
A.Reference value
B.Economic value

Targets:
1.The value customers base their perceptions on
2.The total value of the service to the customer

Answer

Reference values are the values against which customers compare the value of one service to others. They may be factual or quite vaguely defined. An example of a reference value is the actual or perceived market position of the IT service provider.

The economic value of a service is the sum of the customer's reference value and the net difference in value the customer associates with the offered service. For example, a customer may determine the value of a service based on a reference value and on what it would cost to deliver the service internally instead of using an external provider.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B



Question

Match the example of assets to the type it represents. More than one example may match to a type.

Options:
A.Information about e-auction service provisioning
B.Security software 
C.Management
D.E-auction service processes

Targets:
1.Resources
2.Capabilities

Answer

Resources are direct inputs into service processes. For example, they include information, infrastructure, applications, and financial assets.

Capabilities represent an organization's ability to deploy and transform resources to produce services. For example, capabilities include management, organizational abilities, processes, and knowledge.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A, Option B

Target 2 = Option C, Option D



Question

The service provider wants to improve its e-auction service by expanding and improving its assets.

Which types of assets are typically developed over time?

Options:
1.Team leaders
2.Technical know-how
3.Software packages
4.Network infrastructure

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Team leadership is an example of a management capability. Capabilities are usually harder to acquire than resources and are developed over time, through experience and training.

Option 2: Correct. Technical knowledge is an example of a knowledge capability. Capabilities are typically acquired over time, through experience and training.

Option 3: Incorrect. A software package is an example of an application resource. Resources are usually easier for an organization to acquire than capabilities. They don't require development over time.

Option 4: Incorrect. Network infrastructure is an example of an infrastructure resource. Unlike capabilities, resources don't typically require development over an extended period and are comparatively easy to acquire.

Correct answer(s):

1. Team leaders
2. Technical know-how

3. Applying service automation



Question

An IT organization offers an automated e-ticket service to a chain of cinemas through its web site. After implementing the system, it discovers that users are introducing many variations into the system by accessing and interacting with the system's validation processes.

Which service automation guideline did the organization fail to follow?

Options:
1.Minimize users' contact with underlying processes
2.Clarify the needed flow of activities
3.Exercise caution when automating complex tasks and interactions
4.Simplify processes before automating them

Answer

Option 1: Correct. If the organization had minimized users' contact with underlying processes such as validation checks, it could have reduced the possibility of users introducing variations that result in errors.

Option 2: Incorrect. By clarifying the flow of activities in producing its service, a service provider helps ensure that users understand the process and its requirements. In this case, the IT organization may already have done this. However, it has failed to ensure that users don't have access to underlying processes.

Option 3: Incorrect. The IT organization in this example hasn't necessarily chosen to automate an overly complex process. Even for a simple, repetitive task, letting users access underlying processes can result in errors.

Option 4: Incorrect. Simplifying processes before automating them helps ensure the success of the automation process. In this example, there's no indication that the IT organization failed to do this. Instead, the problem is that its system currently gives users access to underlying processes.

Correct answer(s):

1. Minimize users' contact with underlying processes



Question

A service provider provides an automated e-auction service to various retailers through its web site. Many of its customers have complained that they don't know what information to provide when using the service.

Which service automation guideline did the service provider fail to follow?

Options:
1.Clarify the needed flow of activities
2.Exercise caution when automating complex tasks and interactions
3.Minimize users' contact with underlying processes
4.Simplify processes before automating them

Answer

Option 1: Correct. If the service provider had clarified the flow of activities, it would have ensured that users knew what was required when performing a service transaction.

Option 2: Incorrect. Even if a very simple task is automated, failing to clarify the needed flow of activities can result in problems. In this example, the issue isn't that the automated process is necessarily too complex.

Option 3: Incorrect. In this example, there's no indication that users have access to underlying processes. Instead, the problem is that the needed flow of activities hasn't been adequately clarified.

Option 4: Incorrect. The service provider in this example may already have simplified the processes it has chosen to automate. The problem is that the relevant flow of activities isn't clear to users, rather than that the processes themselves are unnecessarily complicated.

Correct answer(s):

1. Clarify the needed flow of activities

A value was created through services and service automation was applied.

Back to top
 

Strategy Management for IT Services
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize key considerations for the Strategy Management of an organization's IT services
•recognize how strategic management provides value to an organization
 
1. Strategy Management considerations

IT services have become a key strategic asset for organizations, which rely on them to achieve their business objectives and remain competitive.

Accordingly, it's important for organizations to determine how to maximize the benefits they obtain from their IT services. They need to establish what IT services they require to achieve their objectives, how these should be used, and how flexible the services should be if they're to maintain a competitive advantage.

In relation to IT services, Strategy Management involves determining how to manage and maintain services to optimize their value to your organization.

The objectives of Strategy Management are to
ensure opportunities are recognizedAn aim of Strategy Management is to identify potentially beneficial opportunities for an organization through analysis of its internal and external environments. Strategy plans can then be updated to capitalize on opportunities as they arise.identify and minimize constraintsAn aim of Strategy Management is to identify and minimize constraints that may prevent the achievement of business objectives, or the delivery or management of IT services.agree on the service provider's vision and missionStrategy Management helps ensure that decision makers agree on the IT service provider's vision and mission and that these are regularly reviewed for continued relevance.define which services to deliverA goal of Strategy Management is to define which IT services to deliver – and to which market spaces – in order to gain or maintain a competitive advantage.ensure all relevant stakeholders are kept updatedStrategy Management should ensure that appropriate stakeholders are kept informed of relevant IT service activities that they may require information on.translate strategic plans, andA goal of Strategy Management is to translate strategic plans into tactical and operational plans that an organization can put into action.manage strategy changesThe Strategy Management process involves managing changes to IT strategies and related documents, as and when necessary, based on changes in a service provider's internal and external environments.
It's generally the responsibility of an organization's executives to set out, plan, and prioritize the objectives of IT Strategy Management.

The executives set the scope of the organization's strategic management, but are unlikely to be involved in conducting management tasks.

A strategy or planning manager generally conducts the necessary assessments, drafts strategy documents, manages execution, and reports the results of Strategy Management to either senior management or a board of directors.

An organization's strategic management of its IT services forms part of its overall Strategy Management, which may be broken down into separate strategies for each business department or unit.

For example, an organization may have separate strategies for its IT services and for its manufacturing and marketing divisions. Together, the strategies for each division have to align with and support the organization's overall business strategy.

Service Strategy focuses on what IT services an organization will offer and how they'll be delivered.

Formulating this strategy involves considering whether each proposed strategic objective is technologically viable, and what investment is required to achieve it.

An organization's senior management can then decide whether to adopt the objective and what priority to assign it.

An organization's IT and business strategies, tactics, and operations should link to and support one another in a number of ways:



Graphic

A diagram displays the various relationships between business and IT strategies, tactics, and operations. 
IT strategy and business tactics determine IT tacticsIT tactics for services are established based on both an organization's IT strategy and business tactics. 

For example, if a business tactic requires compliance with a regulation or standard, IT will have to ensure that its tactics support this.
In the diagram, IT services links to IT tactics for services. IT tactics for services links to business tactics, and vice versa. IT tactics can help determine appropriate business tacticsIT tactics can help determine appropriate business tactics. 

For example, an IT Department's sales automation service will help determine how a sales team operates. If the limits imposed by current IT services are too rigid, an organization can investigate the level of investment required to overcome the constraints.
In the diagram, IT tactics for services links to business tactics, and vice versa. IT operations depend on IT tactics and support business operationsIT service operations are derived from IT tactics, but also depend on the requirements for business operations. The overall success of an organization's IT strategy depends on the support that IT services provide for business operations.
In the diagram, IT tactics for services links to IT service operation. Business operation links to IT service operation, and vice versa. Business operation also links to IT tactics for services. IT strategy links to IT tactics for services. IT strategy is related to business tactics, andBoth IT strategy and business tactics are derived from the business strategy and should be checked to ensure their alignment.

It's important that IT strategies don't clash with business tactics. It's also important to ensure tactical business decisions about uses of IT services can be supported and are feasible, given an organization's IT strategy.
In the diagram, IT strategy links to business tactics, and vice versa. Business strategy links to business tactics. Business strategy also links to IT strategy, and IT strategy to business strategy. required business operations help determine appropriate IT tacticsThe purpose of IT services is to support business objectives. So required business operations help determine appropriate IT tactics. It's important that any IT tactic deployed supports and is valid for the relevant business operations.
In the diagram, business operation links to IT tactics for services, and vice versa. 


Question

What are key considerations for Strategy Management of an organization's IT services?

Options:
1.It's important to analyze the organization's environments
2.You should regularly review the organization's vision and mission
3.You need to keep all stakeholders updated
4.You should aim to minimize technological constraints on business activities
5.IT and business strategies should be formulated separately
6.You should manage changes to strategies on a yearly basis

Answer

Option 1: Correct. One of the objectives of Strategy Management is to identify opportunities as they arise so that an organization can capitalize on these. This requires ongoing analysis of an organization's internal and external environments.

Option 2: Correct. Strategy Management involves regularly reviewing an organization's mission and vision for continued relevance. It also helps determine whether current business tactics are effective.

Option 3: Correct. An aspect of Strategy Management is ensuring that all relevant stakeholders are kept updated about the organization's IT service strategy.

Option 4: Correct. Strategy Management can help an IT organization identify and minimize constraints on achieving its business objectives.

Option 5: Incorrect. It's vital that IT strategies support business strategies – and in some cases, available IT strategies will place constraints on the business strategies that can be considered. So IT and business strategies shouldn't be treated as separate from one another.

Option 6: Incorrect. Strategies should be reviewed regularly and when significant changes occur in an organization's internal or external environment, instead of only once a year.

Correct answer(s):

1. It's important to analyze the organization's environments
2. You should regularly review the organization's vision and mission
3. You need to keep all stakeholders updated
4. You should aim to minimize technological constraints on business activities

2. Strategy Management and values

The main aim of a strategy is to define an organization's objectives and how it will go about meeting these. It should also make it possible to determine exactly when objectives have been met.

Without a clear strategy, an organization is merely at the demands of its various stakeholders, with little ability to assess each demand or the potential impact of complying with it.

Advantages of strategic management are that it
ensures resources, capabilities, and investments are matched to objectivesA good and well-managed strategy helps to ensure the organization's resources, capabilities, and investments are matched to objectives.

For example, Diallonics is a company that provides IT services and security to large enterprises. One of its objectives is to provide current technological security to all its customers. So Strategy Management for Diallonics means ensuring the majority of its investments are spent on developing or acquiring technological security equipment or processes, so the organization continues to align with this objective.ensures stakeholders are representedStrategy Management ensures stakeholders are represented and they agree on the organization's objectives, and the way resources, capabilities, and investments are prioritized.

For example, Diallonics provides its stakeholders with updated strategy documents, stating what the organization's objectives are and how it plans to reach them. This includes how the organization intends to distribute staff, equipment, projects, and other resources. Stakeholders are then given an opportunity to raise any concerns they may have.ensures service providers offer the appropriate set of servicesStrategy Management for IT services ensures a service provider has the appropriate set of services in its Service Portfolio. All its services have to have a clear purpose, and all people in the organization should know their roles in achieving that purpose.

For example, Diallonics designs and implements network security systems that protect its customers' IT infrastructures. Diallonics charges its customers for the equipment, and for installation and maintenance. Diallonics also needs to ensure it has the staff with the necessary IT knowledge to provide these services.results in cost savingsWith proper Strategy Management, investments and expenditure are matched to validated business objectives. So an organization won't waste money or resources on unsubstantiated demands. This will result in cost savings.

For example, Diallonics won't waste resources developing service features that customers enquire about but that won't directly help the customers achieve their business objectives, or support Diallonics' strategic objectives.leads to increased investment in valuable projects, andStrategy Management can help secure increased levels of investment for key projects or service improvements.

For example, because Strategy Management prevents Diallonics from wasting resources, it can afford to invest more in projects that support its key objectives and offer the best potential returns.helps an organization shift investment priorities when necessaryStrategy Management can help an organization determine when to shift investment priorities – for example, based on the effectiveness of current tactics and on any changes in the organization's internal or external environment. This ensures its efforts and budget are spent on areas with the highest level of business impact.

For example, Diallonics mainly deals with the installation and maintenance of network security systems. However, market trends may make it profitable for Diallonics to focus on providing telecommunications services to its customers, on top of its initial service.


Question

Sonical Group provides banks with web sites that support secure online banking.

How can Strategy Management benefit Sonical Group?

Options:
1.By ensuring its investments support strategic objectives
2.By ensuring it offers the appropriate set of services
3.By helping it shift investment priorities when appropriate
4.By ensuring stakeholders know and support the direction the organization is taking
5.By attracting more customers
6.By ensuring adopted strategies remain relevant and don't have to be changed

Answer

Option 1: Correct. A well-managed strategy ensures an organization's resources and investments are kept in sync with what the organization is trying to achieve.

Option 2: Correct. Strategy Management ensures each IT service an organization offers has a clear strategic purpose and employees know their roles in achieving that purpose.

Option 3: Correct. Strategy Management can alert an organization when it's appropriate to shift its focus from one area to another, to ensure its efforts and resources yield optimal results.

Option 4: Correct. Effective Strategy Management ensures all stakeholders are aware of an organization's strategies and that these represent their interests.

Option 5: Incorrect. Effective Strategy Management contributes to the overall success of an organization, but doesn't directly involve attracting customers.

Option 6: Incorrect. Effective Strategy Management involves updating strategies when necessary, based on changes in an organization's internal or external environment.

Correct answer(s):

1. By ensuring its investments support strategic objectives
2. By ensuring it offers the appropriate set of services
3. By helping it shift investment priorities when appropriate
4. By ensuring stakeholders know and support the direction the organization is taking

3. Summary

Strategy Management involves determining how to manage and maintain IT services to optimize their value to an organization. Objectives of Strategy Management include analyzing an organization's internal and external environments for opportunities, identifying and minimizing constraints on achieving business objectives, and securing agreement to a consistent vision and mission. They also include defining IT services that should be provided, keeping stakeholders updated about strategy, translating strategic plans into tactical plans, and managing strategy changes.

Advantages of Strategy Management include ensuring that resources, capabilities, and investments are aligned to strategic objectives, stakeholders are represented, and an organization's Service Portfolio includes an appropriate set of services. Strategy Management can also result in cost savings and increased levels of investment in strategically valuable projects, and it can help organizations identify when to shift their investment priorities.

Back to top
 

The Strategy Management Process for IT Services
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•describe the activities of the strategic assessment and strategy generation stages of the Strategy Management process for IT services
•describe the activities of the strategy execution stage and the measurement and evaluation stage of the Strategy Management process for IT services
•identify key CSFs, KPIs, challenges, and risks of Strategy Management for IT services
 
1. Strategic assessment stage

The Strategy Management process for IT services consists of four stages:
1. strategic assessment 
2. strategy generation 
3. strategy execution, and 
4. measurement and evaluation 

The aim of the first stage, strategic assessment, is to produce a strategic objective that defines the results an IT service provider wants to achieve.

The strategic assessment stage includes five activities.
Analyze internal factorsWhen analyzing the internal factors, the IT service provider examines the current environment and practices in order to identify the organization's strengths and weaknesses. It can then use this information to help in defining a strategy that leverages it strengths and overcomes its weaknesses. 
Analyze external factorsAnalyzing external factors enables the IT service provider to identify current and potential opportunities that can be exploited, and threats that need to be addressed, in its external environment. 
Define market spacesWhen defining market spaces, the IT service provider documents all current market spaces, as well as any potential new market spaces. This information is helpful for deciding whether to continue servicing existing market spaces, and whether changes are needed to retain particular markets successfully. 
Identify strategic industry factorsAn IT service provider needs to identify the strategic industry factors for every market space. Customer needs, business trends, competition, the regulatory environment, suppliers, standards, industry best practices, and technologies influence these factors. 
Establish objectivesIt's necessary to establish objectives to define the targeted results for a specific strategy. Meaningful objectives are based on the outcomes customers hope to achieve. They facilitate consistent decision making, minimize later conflicts, define priorities, and serve as standards. 

Suppose an IT service provider that provides service desk support for a banking institution wants to engage in Strategy Management. It starts by performing a strategic assessment.

First it analyzes the internal environment. It considers its available resources, such as the network infrastructure and skilled staff, and determines how they're deployed to serve the customer.

Next it analyzes the external environment. It assesses relationships with its hardware suppliers and determines what changes they're forecasting for their products.

Then the IT service provider defines its market spaces, documenting the services it offers and its target markets. It also identifies potential new market spaces for its online service desk.

Next it identifies a highly reliable network infrastructure, secure facilities, knowledge of industry regulations, and a very high level of contingency as the strategic industry factors.

Finally, the IT service provider establishes an objective that involves attracting more customers that require service desk support services.

2. Strategy generation stage

Once it has completed a strategic assessment and defined its objective, the IT service provider can proceed to the next stage, strategy generation.

The output of the strategy generation stage is a documented Service Strategy that specifies how the service provider will achieve the specified strategic objective.

The strategy generation stage includes four activities.
Determine perspectiveDetermining perspective involves the IT service provider specifying its overall direction, values, beliefs, and purpose. It also defines how it intends to achieve these. The most common forms of perspective statements are vision and mission statements. 
Form a positionForming a position involves the IT service provider defining how it will differentiate from other similar IT service providers in the industry. An IT service provider's position is often expressed through policies about what services will be provided, to what level, and to which customers. 
Craft a planA service provider needs to craft a plan that defines the course of action required to achieve its objectives, vision, and position. Plans typically focus on financial budgets, a portfolio of services, new service development, investments in service assets, and improvements. 
Adopt patterns of actionAs a final step, the service provider adopts the patterns that are perceived to be an effective means of achieving the strategic objectives. The IT service provider then makes investments in tools and training to ensure these patterns can be properly executed. 

Consider how the IT service provider that provides service desk support proceeds through the strategy generation stage.

First it determines its perspective, drafting its mission as delivering a reliable and secure remote service that enables its customers to operate with minimal disruption.

Next it forms a position that specifies it will provide a service desk that can be customized to meet customers' requirements.

Next the service provider develops a strategic plan that involves increasing the number of secure IT services it offers banks, which are its main target market.

Finally, it adopts a pattern of action that involves purchasing the latest server hardware so that it can provide faster, more reliable services desk capabilities.

Case Study: Question 1 of 2



Scenario

For your convenience, the case study is repeated with each question.

An IT service provider hosts an online hotel reservation service for a chain of hotels through its web site. The IT service provider is attempting to strategically manage its services.

Answer the questions in the given order.

Question

Match activities in the strategic assessment stage to examples of the steps that the service provider takes.

Options:
A.Analyze the internal environment
B.Analyze the external environment
C.Define market spaces
D.Identify strategic industry factors
E.Establish objectives

Targets:
1.Analyzes web servers to determine how they're used
2.Researches related new technology developments
3.Documents that it currently serves hotels
4.Notes that hotels require a secure and reliable booking service
5.Specifies that it would like to increase its market share

Answer

When analyzing the internal environment, the service provider should assess how it currently provides its service.

When analyzing the external environment, the service provider should evaluate external factors and how they could affect the success of its current IT service.

When defining market spaces, the service provider should document the market spaces it currently operates in, as well as possible new market spaces.

When identifying strategic industry factors, the service provider determines which factors are critical to the success of its service given the industry it operates in.

When establishing objectives, the service provider should define the results it expects to achieve by pursuing a strategy. 

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

Target 5 = Option E

Case Study: Question 2 of 2



Scenario

For your convenience, the case study is repeated with each question.

An IT service provider hosts an online hotel reservation service for a chain of hotels through its web site. The IT service provider is attempting to strategically manage its services.

Answer the questions in the given order.

Question

Match activities in the strategy generation stage to the steps that the service provider takes.

Options:
A.Determine perspective 
B.Form a strategic position 
C.Craft a strategic plan
D.Adopt patterns of action

Targets:
1.Defines its mission as providing a secure and reliable reservation service for hotels
2.Specifies that it will provide a specialized reservation service to hotels
3.Determines that it wants to provide online reservations services in other industries
4.Purchases additional network infrastructure and upgrades

Answer

When determining its perspective, the service provider needs to specify its overall direction, values, beliefs, and purpose.

When forming a strategic position, the service provider needs to define how it will be differentiated from other service providers in the market space.

When crafting a strategic plan, the service provider needs to define actions that are required to achieve its objectives, vision, and position. 

When adopting a pattern of action, the service provider must define and implement the patterns required to meet its strategic objectives.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

3. Strategic execution stage

Once a strategy has been defined, it needs to be put into action. So the next stage of the Strategy Management process is strategy execution.

During this stage, the service provider develops a detailed tactical plan that describes what approaches and methods will be used to achieve the documented Service Strategy.

The strategy execution stage includes four activities.
Formalize Service ManagementFormalizing Service Management requires the IT service provider to define an action plan that describes how the IT services it provides can be best managed. 
Align assets with customer outcomesAligning assets with customer outcomes involves ensuring IT service assets are coordinated, controlled, and deployed so that the IT service provider can provide the appropriate IT services at the agreed levels. 
Optimize critical success factorsOptimizing critical success factors (CSFs) involves comparing the organization and its IT services, processes, skills, and tools with identified strategic industry factors – or CSFs – to identify and address any potential shortcomings. 
Prioritize investmentsPrioritizing investments involves analyzing each proposed new service or change to an existing service to determine the level of investment it requires and the proposed Return on Investment (ROI). 

The IT service provider that provides online service desk capabilities for banks now enters the strategy execution stage.

It begins by identifying and defining the processes and services required to manage the service desk capabilities.

Then it specifies how its staff and network resources are deployed to support the service. It also identifies which banks are accessing which servers on the network.

Next the service provider optimizes the relevant CSFs. It does this by determining whether its servers and related hardware can provide the levels of security and reliability required by the banks.

Finally, the IT service provider determines what level of investment is required to enhance the offered services, and whether this will yield an acceptable ROI.

4. Measurement and evaluation stage

The final stage of the Strategy Management process for IT services is measurement and evaluation.



Graphic

A directional arrow moves from the previous execution stage to the measurement and evaluation stage. From here, a directional arrow links to each of the first three stages – strategic assessment, strategic generation, and strategic execution.

The measurement and evaluation stage includes two activities.
Continual Service ImprovementContinual Service Improvement involves identifying areas that are performing below expectations, and providing feedback to the strategy generation and execution stages of the process so that these areas can be improved. 
Expansion and growthSuccessful expansion and growth involves leveraging existing service assets and customer portfolios to drive new growth and profitability in new market spaces. 

As the final stage of its Strategy Management process, the IT service provider that provides service desk capabilities for banks performs measurement and evaluation.

The IT service provider continually monitors the service desk service and makes improvements to provide better value for its customers.

The IT service provider also investigates ways it can expand its IT service and enter new market spaces – for instance, providing services to other large financial corporations beyond banks.

Case Study: Question 1 of 2



Scenario

For your convenience, the case study is repeated with each question.

The IT service provider that delivers online hotel reservation services to a national chain of hotels now needs to perform the strategy execution and measurement and evaluation stages.

Answer the questions in the given order.

Question

Match activities in the strategy execution stage to corresponding examples of the steps that the service provider takes.

Options:
A.Formalize service management
B.Align assets with customer outcomes
C.Optimize CSFs
D.Prioritize investments

Targets:
1.Identify the required processes and projects for managing the online reservation service capabilities
2.Ensure appropriate allocation of staff to support the system
3.Determine whether its network provides the required speed and reliability
4.Determine whether upgrading the servers will yield a worthwhile ROI

Answer

When formalizing service management, the service provider needs to specify how the services provided can be properly managed.

When aligning assets with customer outcomes, the service provider must deploy and coordinate its resources – including staff – so that it can provide the appropriate services at the agreed levels.

Optimizing CSFs involves ensuring that processes, skills, and tools, including equipment like servers and routers, can meet the minimum conditions required for success.

When prioritizing investments, you determine the level of investment required and the proposed return on that investment.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

Case Study: Question 2 of 2



Scenario

For your convenience, the case study is repeated with each question.

The IT service provider that delivers online hotel reservation services to a national chain of hotels now needs to perform the strategy execution and measurement and evaluation stages.

Answer the questions in the given order.

Question

Match activities in the measurement and evaluation stage to steps the service provider takes.

Options:
A.Continual service improvement 
B.Expansion and growth 

Targets:
1.Use feedback from customers to enhance the services provided 
2.Look for new markets for online service desk capabilities

Answer

Continual service improvement involves continually identifying and implementing service improvements.

Expansion and growth involves leveraging existing service assets to create growth in new market spaces.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

5. CSFs, KPIs, challenges, and risks

The Strategy Management process may be conducted as part of an annual planning cycle, or it may be triggered by new business opportunities, changes to internal or external environments, or a company merger or acquisition.

Inputs for Strategy Management include
• existing plans 
• research 
• vendor strategies and product roadmaps 
• customer interviews and strategic plans 
• the Service Portfolio 
• service reporting, and 
• audit reports 

The outputs of Strategy Management are
• strategic plans and service strategies 
• tactical plans for strategy execution 
• strategy review schedules 
• mission and vision statements 
• service design, operation, and improvement policies, and 
• strategic requirements for new services 

Strategy Management interfaces include
the Service PortfolioStrategy Management provides the objectives, policies, and constraints that are used to evaluate new services, or strategic changes to existing services, in the Service Portfolio.

The Service Portfolio provides Strategy Management with information about the services currently in the Service Catalog, and what strategic objectives they have been designed to meet.Financial ManagementStrategy Management provides input to Financial Management to indicate what types of returns and investments are required. 

Financial Management provides the financial information and tools to enable Strategy Management to prioritize actions and plans.Service DesignStrategy Management identifies the policies, constraints, and priorities that must be taken into account during Service Design.

Service Design processes provide feedback to Strategy Management that enables measurement and evaluation of the IT services being designed.Service TransitionStrategy Management enables Service Transition to prioritize and evaluate IT services to ensure they meet the original intent. 

Service Transition identifies variations and provides feedback to Strategy Management so that the strategy can be reviewed.Knowledge ManagementKnowledge Management plays an important role in structuring information so it can be used to make strategic decisions. It enables strategic planners to make use of knowledge about the existing environment, its history, and its dynamics, and to make informed decisions about the future.daily operations, andStrategy Management impacts daily operations in terms of the execution of strategic priorities and the ability to measure adherence with strategy. Operational tools and processes must be aligned to strategic objectives and desired business outcomes.Continual Service ImprovementContinual Service Improvement efforts involve evaluating whether the strategy has been executed effectively and whether it's meeting objectives. Any deviations are reported to those responsible for Strategy Management, who can then work on improving the process or adjusting the strategy as required.
CSFs are the factors that must be in place if the Strategy Management process is to be successful.

Key performance indicators (KPIs) are metrics used to evaluate the CSFs. KPIs should be monitored and used to identify opportunities for improvement.

Some CSFs for the Strategy Management process include the ability to
access informationThe accuracy of forecasts and findings from external research, which can be measured at the end of a planning period, is an example of a KPI measuring access to information about an IT service provider's internal and external environments.identify and overcome constraintsThe number of corrective actions taken to remove or reduce constraints, and the results of those actions in terms of achieving strategic objectives, are KPIs that measure the ability to manage constraints.clearly understand competitive positioningAn example of a KPI for understanding competitive positioning is whether each IT service in the Service Portfolio has a statement defining the business outcomes it's designed to meet and is measured in terms of these outcomes.produce, store, maintain, and communicate strategy planning documentsWhether relevant stakeholders have access to appropriate and current planning documents is a KPI relating to the management of strategy planning documents.translate strategic plans into actionable plans, andA KPI measuring the ability to translate strategic plans into actionable tactical and operational plans is whether the organizational unit leader can identify the plans for that unit and provide an overview of the relevant plan's contents.adjust strategies and related documentsThe number of changes made to strategy documents, corresponding to the number of identified changes in internal and external environments, is an example of a KPI measuring responsiveness to change.
For Strategy Management to be successful, an IT service provider must overcome several potential challenges:
• the possibility of conducting Strategy Management for IT services at the wrong level in the organization 
• a lack of accurate information about the external environment 
• a lack of support from stakeholders 
• a lack of appropriate tools or of knowledge about how to use them 
• a lack of appropriate document control mechanisms and procedures, and 
• failure to match operational targets to strategic objectives 

In addition, the success of Strategy Management may be compromised if
• a flawed governance model is used 
• short-term priorities override strategic directives 
• strategic decisions are made based on incomplete, incorrect, or misleading information 
• the wrong strategy is selected, and 
• the metrics used by various business units don't align to those for the adopted strategy 



Question

An IT service provider is in the process of conducting Strategy Management for a hotel reservation system it provides to a hotel chain. 

What are some of the key CSFs and KPIs, challenges, and risks associated with the process?

Options:
1.It creates access to accurate information about how the online reservation system is deployed and the customers and users' needs
2.It quantifies fiscal values for different service components
3.It modifies the reservation system for alignment with any changes in legislation
4.It doesn't make any strategic changes to the reservation system based on inaccurate information
5.It doesn't alter the IT service provider's strategy once it has been approved

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Access to accurate information about the external environment is crucial for successful Strategy Management.

Option 2: Incorrect. Valuation of services lies within the Financial Management area – it doesn't relate to Strategy Management.

Option 3: Correct. CSFs are the conditions that need to be in place for Strategy Management to be successful. In this case, the CSF is the ability to adjust to changes in the internal and external environments.

Option 4: Correct. Strategy Management will be compromised if strategic decisions are based on incomplete or inaccurate information.

Option 5: Incorrect. One aspect of effective Strategy Management is the management of changes to strategy. These may be necessary if, for example, changes occur in the service provider's external environment.

Correct answer(s):

1. It creates access to accurate information about how the online reservation system is deployed and the customers and users' needs
3. It modifies the reservation system for alignment with any changes in legislation
4. It doesn't make any strategic changes to the reservation system based on inaccurate information

6. Summary

The Strategy Management process for IT services consists of four stages. During strategic assessment stage, a strategic objective that defines the results an IT service provider wants to achieve is developed.

During the strategy generation stage, a documented service strategy is developed.

During the strategic execution stage, the IT service provider develops a detailed tactical plan to describe approaches and methods used to achieved the Service Strategy.

The measurement and evaluation stage is used to perform Continual Service Improvement and look for ways to expand and grow existing service assets and customer portfolios.

CSFs need to be measured with KPIs. Also, the challenges and risks need to be taken into account when performing the four stages of the Strategy Management process.

Back to top
 

Service Portfolio Management
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize the activities of the define and analyze phases of the Service Portfolio Management process
•recognize the activities of the approve and charter phases of the Service Portfolio Management process
•identify key CSFs, KPIs, challenges and risks of Service Portfolio Management
 
1. Service Portfolio Management

The Service Portfolio is the complete set of services that is managed by a service provider. It includes three categories of service: service pipeline (proposed or in development), Service Catalog (live or available for deployment), and retired services.

It describes services in terms of their business value, defining business needs, and the service provider's responses to those needs.

The purpose of Service Portfolio Management is to ensure that an IT service provider has the right mix of services. This is the combination of services that requires an acceptable level of investment while enabling the achievement of the desired business outcome.

A Service Portfolio helps answer the following strategic questions:
• Why should a customer buy these services? 
• Why should they buy these services from us? 
• What pricing or chargeback models should apply? 
• What are our strengths and weaknesses, priorities, and risks? 
• How can our resources and capabilities best be allocated? 

Service Portfolio Management is the process of managing a Service Portfolio, including determining which IT services to include and how those services will be tracked throughout their lifecycles.

In addition Service Portfolio Management includes a way for the organization to evaluate how services assist in achieving its strategy, as well as respond to changes in its internal or external environments.

Service Portfolio Management involves tracking the investment in each service throughout its lifecycle, and working with other service management processes to ensure that the targeted returns are achieved.

Additional objectives of Service Portfolio Management are to
• ensure that all services, as well as the business needs they meet, are clearly defined and linked to strategic objectives 
• control which services are offered, under what conditions, and at what level of investment, and 
• analyze which services are no longer viable and when they should be retired 

Service Portfolio Management adds value by enabling an IT service provider to make sound decisions about investments.

For example, it helps the organization determine the business case for a possible new IT service by requiring that you specify and compare the business outcomes it will yield with the investment required to provide the service.

Service Portfolio Management consists of four main phases of activity.



Graphic

The define phase links to the analyze phase, which links to the approve phase, which links to the charter phase. The charter phase links back to the define phase.
DefineThe define phase involves ensuring that each existing or proposed service is clearly defined and has a documented business case. It also involves validating information about the business outcomes that IT services can provide and the required investment in those services. 
AnalyzeThe analyze phase involves evaluating the IT services in the Service Portfolio to determine whether they provide value, and how supply and demand can be prioritized and balanced. 
ApproveThe approve phase involves authorizing the level of investment required to deliver the targeted levels of service. 
CharterA charter is a document that authorizes an IT service project and states its scope, terms, and references. All services must be formally chartered and stakeholders should be kept updated with information about investment decisions and resource allocations. 

2. The define and analyze phases

During the define phase, you need to define new and existing IT services, together with the
• targeted business outcomes for the services 
• opportunities that the services exploit 
• relevant warranty requirements, and 
• anticipated investment requirements for the services 

The main purpose of the define phase is to ensure that all IT services are listed in a portfolio and to create business cases for these services.

During this phase, you also identify and categorize IT services. If IT experts themselves build and introduce a new service, for example, there may be no record that the service is available until it's officially identified as a new service through Service Portfolio Management.

During the define phase, you may identify new strategies or strategy adjustments based on service opportunities you identify. You should also then identify stakeholders, including all those who have an interest in the strategies or strategy changes.



Note

Suggestions for new services that emerge during the define phase are submitted for analysis in the next phase.

In the define phase, you should establish and use a standard method for recording customer requests for new business. These may also highlight the potential for new IT strategies or services.

A further objective of the define phase is to identify ways to improve new and existing services. Improvement plans may relate to the people, processes, or tools that support the services.



Question

An IT software development company is in the define phase of Service Portfolio Management.

What activities are part of this phase?

Options:
1.Identifying possible strategy changes
2.Recording customers' requests for new business
3.Building service improvement plans
4.Prioritizing services based on the value they provide
5.Identifying possible new services and recording business cases for these
6.Evaluating retired services

Answer

Option 1: Correct. One of the objectives of the define phase is to identify new IT strategies or adjustments to existing strategies that will enable the organization to capitalize on new opportunities.

Option 2: Correct. During the define phase, you should use a standardized method to record customers' requests for new business.

Option 3: Correct. During the define phase, you may identify ways to improve existing or proposed services. These should be documented in service improvement plans.

Option 4: Incorrect. During the define phase, you simply define new and existing services, the business outcomes they can generate, and the likely required investments. It's only later that you analyze the services in terms of the value they can provide.

Option 5: Correct. A key activity in the define phase is defining both new and existing services, and recording business cases for these.

Option 6: Incorrect. The define phase is largely concerned with defining new and existing services, instead of evaluating retired services.

Correct answer(s):

1. Identifying possible strategy changes
2. Recording customers' requests for new business
3. Building service improvement plans
5. Identifying possible new services and recording business cases for these

The second phase of Service Portfolio Management is the analyze phase. Its concern is linking each service to a strategy to facilitate value proposition.

The analyze phase seeks to frame how the plan, perspective, position, and patterns become actual services.

During the analyze phase, you should ask questions such as
• Which services are most appropriate for achieving goals? 
• What resources and capabilities are needed? 
• What resources and capabilities are available? 
• What services should be prioritized? 

In the analyze phase, you also align and prioritize IT services to balance supply and demand.



Question

After defining IT services, the software development company enters the analyze phase of Service Portfolio Management.

What activities are part of this phase?

Options:
1.Identifying the most appropriate services for achieving goals
2.Specifying the business case for an identified service
3.Determining what resources and capabilities are needed and available
4.Establishing which services should be prioritized
5.Authorizing implementation of a proposed new service

Answer

Option 1: Correct. During the analyze phase, you assess the value of each IT service identified during the define phase in relation to strategic objectives.

Option 2: Incorrect. You specify the business case for each service during the define phase, which comes before the analyze phase.

Option 3: Correct. As part of the analyze phase, you establish what skills and capacities are required to deliver the identified services, and whether these are available.

Option 4: Correct. Prioritizing services based on their value and on immediate needs is one of the activities you perform during the analyze phase.

Option 5: Incorrect. Proposals for new services are approved or rejected only in the phase that follows analysis.

Correct answer(s):

1. Identifying the most appropriate services for achieving goals
3. Determining what resources and capabilities are needed and available
4. Establishing which services should be prioritized

3. The approve and charter phases

The objective of the approve phase is to determine the feasibility of each proposed new IT service. If it's established that a service is feasible and will add value to the organization, it can be authorized and the required resources can be assigned.

In the approve phase, the change proposal is
submitted for investigationA change proposal is created and submitted for investigation through Change Management for each proposed new IT service. It should include a description of the new service, a business case for it – together with an overview or relevant risks, alternatives, and issues, and a roster for implementation.assessed, andChange proposals need to be assessed to establish whether any proposed new service is feasible and will add value to an organization. The change proposal will allow Change Management to coordinate the activities of all resources required to investigate the customer and infrastructure requirements. It will also ensure that these activities are prioritized in relation to other authorized changes already being built, tested, and implemented by the same resources.authorized or rejectedIf a change proposal is authorized by Change Management, Service Portfolio Management will use the feedback collated by Change Management to draft a service charter. If the change proposal is rejected, appropriate stakeholders should be informed, and the Service Portfolio should be updated.


Question

After defining and analyzing services, a software development company enters the approve phase of Service Portfolio Management. 

What activities are part of this phase?

Options:
1.Identifying possible new services
2.Submitting change proposals for new services
3.Approving or rejecting change proposals for new services
4.Allocating resources for use in delivering new services
5.Investigating the feasibility of proposed new services

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. Possible new services are identified earlier on, during the define phase.

Option 2: Correct. As part of the approve phase, you need to draft change proposals for new services, and then submit these through Change Management.

Option 3: Correct. During the approve phase, change proposals for new services are investigated and either authorized or rejected.

Option 4: Incorrect. During the approve phase, change proposals for new services are either accepted or rejected. 

Option 5: Correct. In the approve phase, change proposals for new services go through Change Management where it will be determined whether they're feasible and will add value to an organization.

Correct answer(s):

2. Submitting change proposals for new services
3. Approving or rejecting change proposals for new services
5. Investigating the feasibility of proposed new services

In the charter phase, you create a service charter for each new service that's approved. A service charter ensures that all relevant stakeholders, including development, testing, and deployment staff members, have a common understanding of what will be built, by when, and the budget of the project.

The charter also officially authorizes the allocation of resources for the new IT service. A new service is approached and managed as a new project, which is entered in the project portfolio.

The charter is an input into the project management process and initiates the design phase for the service.



Question

What activities are part of the charter phase?

Options:
1.Ensuring all stakeholders understand what service is to be designed
2.Officially authorizing allocation of resources for delivery of new services
3.Determining the feasibility of proposed new services
4.Creating a business case for a proposed new service

Answer

Option 1: Correct. In the charter phase, you create a service charter for a new service. This informs stakeholders, including staff, what service will be built and what the budget is for designing the new service.

Option 2: Correct. The charter phase marks the official start of a project to introduce a new IT service, officially authorizing the allocation of resources to it and acting as an input for the project management process.

Option 3: Incorrect. You investigate the feasibility of proposed new services earlier on in the process. By the charter phase, a new service has already been approved.

Option 4: Incorrect. By the charter phase, a proposal for a new service has already been approved, based on its business case and feasibility.

Correct answer(s):

1. Ensuring all stakeholders understand what service is to be designed
2. Officially authorizing allocation of resources for delivery of new services

4. Key CSFs, KPIs, and risks

The triggers for Service Portfolio Management can include
a change in strategyA new or a change in strategy might impact existing services or service models, making it important to review an IT service provider's service offerings.a request from a customerService Portfolio Management helps to define and formalize customer requests for new or changed services, ensuring that these are subject to a proper Change Management process.an identified improvement opportunityRecognition of opportunities for new or changed services may prompt the Service Portfolio Management process.feedback from staffFeedback from design, build, and transition teams may indicate a deviation from the specifications, like cost or release time, for an IT service. Service Portfolio Management will be involved in estimating the impact of this and defining corrective action, if needed.Service Level Management (SLM) reviews, andSLM reviews may indicate that particular services aren't providing the expected outcomes or aren't being used in the intended ways. This may trigger the Service Portfolio Management process.unexpected costsFinancial Management for IT services may indicate that a service costs significantly more or less than anticipated. This will affect the expected Return on Investment (ROI) for that service, and may trigger the Service Portfolio Management process.
Service Portfolio Management interfaces with several other functions and processes:
Service Catalog ManagementService Catalog Management is closely linked with Service Portfolio Management in that the Service Catalog is part of the Service Portfolio. However, Service Portfolio Management determines which services will be placed into the Service Catalog, while Service Catalog Management performs all the activities required for this to be implemented.Strategy Management for IT servicesStrategy Management for IT services defines the overall strategy for IT services, including which services to include. It also determines the objectives for investments, or what levels of investment can be made and what the anticipated returns should be, and the ideal market spaces to target.Financial Management for IT servicesFinancial Management for IT services provides information and tools to enable Service Portfolio Management to perform ROI calculations. In addition, Financial Management for IT services helps track the actual costs of services to ensure Service Portfolio Management can generate accurate forecasts. This information can be used to improve the analysis of services in the future.Demand Management, andDemand Management provides information about service fulfillment needs. This is used to determine the utilization and expected ROI for each service.Business Relationship Management (BRM)BRM initiates requests and obtains business information and requirements, which are used in defining services and evaluating whether they'll provide sufficient ROI. BRM also keeps customers informed about the status of services in the Service Portfolio.
Various critical success factors (CSFs) must be in place for Service Portfolio Management to be successful.

Each CSF should be mapped to one or more relevant key performance indicators (KPIs). These are metrics specifically used for measuring the CSFs.

Examples of appropriate KPIs for evaluating Service Portfolio Management are
• whether there's a documented statement specifying the initial investment in each service 
• the ongoing ROI for each service, based on investment in the service in relation to the business outcomes it's generating 
• surveys indicating customers' level of satisfaction with the value they're receiving from a service, and 
• whether the risks associated with each service and corresponding risk responses are documented in the Service Portfolio 

Potential challenges and risks for Service Portfolio Management include
insufficient access to customer and user informationInsufficient access to information about the business outcomes that customers require can prevent Service Portfolio Management from succeeding.lack of formal project and change managementWithout formal project management, it can be difficult to track services through the design and transition stages, and it's possible that service weaknesses or failures won't be detected.

Without formal change management, changes to services may be made haphazardly, with little consideration of the real value or cost of the changes.absence of project or customer portfoliosWithout a project portfolio, it will be difficult to assess the impact of new initiatives on new services or proposed changes to services.

Similarly, without a customer agreement portfolio, it will be difficult to identify the objectives, use, and ROI of services.failure to consider customers' required business outcomesA Service Portfolio that focuses only on the details of service provision will make it difficult to calculate the value of services, model their future utilization, or validate customer requirements for the services.rushed or uninformed decisions, andPressure to offer a new service can mean the decision is rushed and a service is authorized before a full investigation of associated risks has been completed. This can be a costly mistake.a lack of defined metrics for measuring valueIt's very difficult to calculate the ROI of a service that hasn't been designed around a clear value proposition. In situations where cost cutting is being considered, service providers may find themselves being forced to eliminate IT services that appear to be valuable, but for which no tangible returns can be demonstrated.


Question

What are examples of key CSFs, KPIs, challenges, and risks associated with Service Portfolio Management?

Options:
1.The CSF of appropriate risk management, with a corresponding KPI of whether the risks for each service are documented
2.Failure to track all expenditures associated with service provision
3.The lack of a formal approach to service management
4.Failure to focus on required business outcomes
5.Failure to remove entries for retired services from the Service Portfolio

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Successful Service Portfolio Management relies on appropriate management of the risks associated with services, so this is a suitable CSF. One KPI for evaluating risk management is whether the relevant risks are documented in the Service Portfolio.

Option 2: Incorrect. Service Portfolio Management does involve tracking the ROI for each service, but tracking all expenditures would be a function of financial management.

Option 3: Correct. Without a formal project management approach, it can be difficult to track services or to compare their expected and actual value.

Option 4: Correct. If a Service Portfolio doesn't include information about the business outcomes that services must provide, it's difficult to calculate the value of the services, to model their future utilization, or to validate customer requirements for the services.

Option 5: Incorrect. Information about retired services should be kept in the Service Portfolio, instead of being removed.

Correct answer(s):

1. The CSF of appropriate risk management, with a corresponding KPI of whether the risks for each service are documented
3. The lack of a formal approach to service management
4. Failure to focus on required business outcomes

5. Summary

Service Portfolio Management is a process describing IT services in terms of rationale for costs to implement, service strengths and weaknesses, and resources and capabilities.

The process is divided into four phases. During the define phase, new and existing IT services are defined. The analyze phase links each service to a service strategy.

During the approve phase, the feasibility of a new service is determined. During the charter phase, the service charter for each new service that's approved is created.

Services within portfolio management have different triggers, such as a request for a new service or a new strategy being devised. Each service can be analyzed using CSFs. Each CSF should correspond to one or more KPIs. Examples of risks associated with Service Portfolio Management include the lack of a project portfolio and defined measurements for services.

Back to top
 

Managing Service Strategies
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•describe the main considerations for the Strategy Management of an organization's IT services, given a scenario 
•identify the activities of the Strategy Management process for IT services, given a scenario
•identify the activities of the Service Portfolio Management process, given a scenario
 
1. Exercise overview

In this exercise, you're required to answer questions about the implementation of Strategy Management and Service Portfolio Management.

This involves the following tasks:
•recognizing the main considerations of Strategy Management
•identifying Strategy Management activities, and
•identifying the activities involved in Service Portfolio Management

2. Recognizing strategy considerations

An information security company provides secure online banking services for a range of banks and their customers. It uses Strategy Management to optimize the value of its IT services.



Question

What are some of the objectives of Strategy Management?

Options:
1.To define which services to deliver
2.To translate operational plans into clear strategies
3.To identify and minimize business constraints
4.To identify opportunities that the service provider can exploit
5.To make service delivery processes more efficient

Answer

Option 1: Correct. One of the purposes of Strategy Management is to determine the mix of services that will provide the best value and the best support for the service provider's strategic objectives.

Option 2: Incorrect. Strategic plans should be translated into operational plans, rather than the other way around. It's strategy that should determine operations.

Option 3: Correct. An aim of Strategy Management is to reduce or eliminate constraints on the achievement of business objectives.

Option 4: Correct. An objective of Strategy Management is to monitor internal and external environments for possible opportunities that could help the service provider achieve its strategic objectives.

Option 5: Incorrect. Strategy Management focuses on strategies, or plans, for optimizing the value of IT services. It doesn't directly involve optimizing processes or operations.

Correct answer(s):

1. To define which services to deliver
3. To identify and minimize business constraints
4. To identify opportunities that the service provider can exploit



Question

What are additional objectives of Strategy Management?

Options:
1.To ensure agreement on the service provider's vision and mission
2.To manage strategy changes
3.To convert strategies into plans that can be put into action
4.To ensure that all stakeholders are kept informed about the adopted strategies
5.To secure additional funding for IT services
6.To make later strategy reviews unnecessary

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Strategy Management helps ensure that all stakeholders agree on a service provider's vision and mission, and that IT services support these.

Option 2: Correct. An objective of Strategy Management is to ensure that only beneficial, approved changes are made to strategies for IT services.

Option 3: Correct. One of the purposes of Strategy Management is converting strategic plans into operational or tactical plans that can be put into action.

Option 4: Correct. Effective Strategy Management ensures that all those with an interest in a service provider's strategies are kept updated about strategic decisions.

Option 5: Incorrect. Effective Strategy Management can help ensure that the funds available for IT services are invested as wisely as possible. However, the purpose of Strategy Management isn't to secure additional funding for IT services.

Option 6: Incorrect. Strategies should always be subject to regular reviews. Changes in a service provider's internal and external environments may cause existing strategies to become outdated or ineffective.

Correct answer(s):

1. To ensure agreement on the service provider's vision and mission
2. To manage strategy changes
3. To convert strategies into plans that can be put into action
4. To ensure that all stakeholders are kept informed about the adopted strategies



Question

Which statements about the relationships between IT service and business strategies, tactics, and operations are correct?

Options:
1.Both IT strategy and business tactics are derived from a service provider's business strategy
2.IT tactics can help determine appropriate business tactics
3.IT service and business strategies should be handled separately
4.IT service strategies should determine business strategies

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Both IT strategy and business tactics should be derived from business strategy, and should be consistent with one another. It's important that IT service strategies don't clash with business tactics. It's also important to verify that tactical business decisions about uses of IT services can be supported and are feasible.

Option 2: Correct. IT tactics may help determine what business tactics a service provider is able to employ, by determining what IT support is available.

Option 3: Incorrect. The purpose of IT strategies should be to support an organization's strategic business objectives. So IT service strategies should map directly to business strategies, instead of being treated as separate from these.

Option 4: Incorrect. IT service strategies should be developed specifically to support existing business strategies.

Correct answer(s):

1. Both IT strategy and business tactics are derived from a service provider's business strategy
2. IT tactics can help determine appropriate business tactics

3. Managing strategy

The Strategy Management process includes four stages – strategic assessment, strategy generation, strategy execution, and measurement and evaluation.



Question

What steps should the IT service provider perform as part of strategic assessment?

Options:
1.Determine how its data resources will best be used
2.Determine and define risk analysis
3.Determine any governmental regulation affecting loan applications
4.Determine the feasibility of the service
5.Define if there are new gaps in the market
6.Establishing objectives to define results
7.Identify strategic industry factors

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The service provider must analyze the internal environment to make decisions on its capabilities and resources.

Option 2: Incorrect. Risks analysis is a later consideration. 

Option 3: Correct. The service provider must analyze the external environment that affect strategy decisions.

Option 4: Incorrect. Feasibility studies are not conducted at this stage.

Option 5: Correct. The service provider defines both current and new market spaces.

Option 6: Correct. After establishing what the objectives are, the service provider can define how it will achieve the expected results.

Option 7: Correct. Strategic industry factors are affected by customer needs, business trends, competition, regulatory environment, suppliers, standards, industry best practices, and technologies.

Correct answer(s):

1. Determine how its data resources will best be used
3. Determine any governmental regulation affecting loan applications
5. Define if there are new gaps in the market
6. Establishing objectives to define results
7. Identify strategic industry factors



Question

The IT service provider next wants to initiate strategy generation.

What activities does it undertake to do this?

Options:
1.Adopt patterns of action
2.Form a position
3.Create a blueprint for risk management
4.Determine perspective
5.Interview stakeholders
6.Craft a plan

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Adopting patterns of action helps defines patterns for efficiency and achieving strategic objectives.

Option 2: Correct. Forming a position lets a service provider differentiate itself in terms of policies and customers.

Option 3: Incorrect. Creating a risk management outline does little to further strategy.

Option 4: Correct. Determining perspective lets a service provider specify its overall direction, values, beliefs, and purpose.

Option 5: Incorrect. Involving stakeholders at this stage is not a firm requirement of strategy generation.

Option 6: Correct. Crafting a plan defines the course of action for achieving visions and objectives.

Correct answer(s):

1. Adopt patterns of action
2. Form a position
4. Determine perspective
6. Craft a plan



Question

Having generated a strategy, the next process is to execute it.

What are the activities of strategy execution?

Options:
1.Formalize service management
2.Ensure customer outcomes are aligned with assets
3.Create a road map for realizing objectives
4.Make sure investments are prioritized
5.Compile a best practices document
6.Optimize critical success factors (CSFs)

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Formalizing service management results in an action plan that aligns services with outcomes. 

Option 2: Correct. Alignment lets the service provider determine how service assets are being deployed, and to which customers.

Option 3: Incorrect. At the strategy execution stage, plans are put into action.

Option 4: Correct. Analyzing each proposed new service determines the needed level of investment and the proposed return on that investment.

Option 5: Incorrect. Best practice mapping is less important at the strategy execution stage.

Option 6: Correct. Optimizing CSFs involves comparing factors with industry components to reveal shortcomings. 

Correct answer(s):

1. Formalize service management
2. Ensure customer outcomes are aligned with assets
4. Make sure investments are prioritized
6. Optimize critical success factors (CSFs)



Question

Next the strategy must be measured and evaluated. 

What activities form part of this stage?

Options:
1.Expansion and growth
2.Monitoring and maintenance
3.Continual service improvement
4.Edits and reappraisal

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Successful expansion and growth reconciles service assets and customer portfolios to increase profitability in new market spaces.

Option 2: Incorrect. Monitoring and maintenance are irrelevant activities to the stage of measurement and evaluation.

Option 3: Correct. The continual service improvement activities identify weak areas and provide feedback into the strategy generation and execution phases of the process.

Option 4: Incorrect. Edits and reappraisal can in no way be considered functions of measurement or evaluations.

Correct answer(s):

1. Expansion and growth
3. Continual service improvement



Question

What are the key CSFs, KPIs, challenges, and risks to be considered?

Options:
1.Having access to accurate information about the financial environment 
2.Having to alternate between different service components
3.Being able to adapt to new policies regulating loans
4.Being positioned to provide the full range of services

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Access to accurate information about the external environment is a challenge that is critical to proper Strategy Management.

Option 2: Incorrect. Different components pose neither a risk or a challenge, nor can they be describes as a CSF or KPI.

Option 3: Correct. The CSF in question is the inability to adapt to changes in internal or external environments.

Option 4: Incorrect. The number of services is irrelevant to the CSF, KPI or risk factor of Strategy Management.

Correct answer(s):

1. Having access to accurate information about the financial environment 
3. Being able to adapt to new policies regulating loans

4. Managing the Service Portfolio

A cell phone service provider is using the Service Portfolio Management process to streamline its services. The process includes define, analyze, approve, and charter phases.



Question

What activities must the cell phone provider undertake in the define phase?

Options:
1.Recording customers' requests for new business
2.Creating service improvement plans
3.Identifying opportunities for new services
4.Designing new services
5.Identifying new strategies and associated shareholders
6.Removing entries for retired services from the Service Portfolio

Answer

Option 1: Correct. In the define phase, you should use a standardized method to record any customer requests for additional business. These may highlight opportunities for introducing new services or changing existing ones.

Option 2: Correct. One of the objectives of the define phase is to identify opportunities for improving the services that a service provider is currently offering or planning to offer.

Option 3: Correct. During the define phase, you identify opportunities for introducing new services or making alterations to existing ones.

Option 4: Incorrect. During the define phase, you may identify opportunities for new services – but design of these services, if they're approved, won't begin until after all four phases in the Service Portfolio Management process have been completed.

Option 5: Correct. The define phase involves identifying opportunities for new or changed strategies, and determining who the associated stakeholders are.

Option 6: Incorrect. Entries for retired services should remain in the Service Portfolio.

Correct answer(s):

1. Recording customers' requests for new business
2. Creating service improvement plans
3. Identifying opportunities for new services
5. Identifying new strategies and associated shareholders



Question

What activities should the service provider complete during the analyze phase?

Options:
1.Approve proposals for new services
2.Prioritizing services
3.Identifying the best services for achieving strategic goals
4.Determining what resources and capabilities are required
5.Creating and implementing service designs

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. In the analyze phase, you evaluate services in terms of the value they can contribute and the investments they require. However, you don't approve or reject change proposals until the approve phase.

Option 2: Correct. During the analyze phase, you should prioritize services based on their value and the urgency of the need for them.

Option 3: Correct. During the analyze phase, you assess the value of each service in terms of its ability to help achieve strategic objectives.

Option 4: Correct. In the analyze phase, you establish what resources and capabilities are required to provide each service, and whether these are available.

Option 5: Incorrect. Service design doesn't begin until a proposed new service has been approved and a service charter has been created for it.

Correct answer(s):

2. Prioritizing services
3. Identifying the best services for achieving strategic goals
4. Determining what resources and capabilities are required



Question

What activities should the service provider complete during the approve phase?

Options:
1.Categorizing services
2.Authorizing valuable changes to services
3.Allocating resources for the delivery of new services
4.Creating change proposals
5.Securing funds for new services
6.Investigating the value of proposed new services

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. You categorize services during the define phase, rather than during the approve phase.

Option 2: Correct. In the approve phase, change proposals are authorized through Change Management. New services or changes to existing services may be proposed at this stage.

Option 3: Incorrect. Resource allocation occurs only after a proposed service has been approved and a service charter for it has been created.

Option 4: Correct. In the approve phase, you create change proposals – proposing new services or changes to existing services – and then submit through Change Management for approval or rejection.

Option 5: Incorrect. Financing isn't part of the Service Portfolio Management process.

Option 6: Correct. In this phase, a change management body investigates proposals for new services or service changes to determine whether they're feasible and of value.

Correct answer(s):

2. Authorizing valuable changes to services
4. Creating change proposals
6. Investigating the value of proposed new services



Question

The final phase of the Service Portfolio Management process is the charter phase.

What activities occur in this phase?

Options:
1.Communicating details of approved services to all stakeholders 
2.Establishing business cases for new services
3.Testing if proposed services are feasible
4.Initiating project management for new services
5.Officially authorizing the allocation of resources for new services

Answer

Option 1: Correct. In the charter phase, you create a service charter and use it to ensure that all stakeholders know what service will be designed and how much it will cost.

Option 2: Incorrect. You establish the business case for a service earlier on, before submitting a change proposal for approval.

Option 3: Incorrect. Any services that reach the charter phase have already been approved, which means that they have already been judged as feasible.

Option 4: Correct. Once a service charter has been created for a service, project management of the service begins and the project portfolio is updated.

Option 5: Correct. A completed service charter for a new service officially authorizes the allocation of resources for the service.

Correct answer(s):

1. Communicating details of approved services to all stakeholders 
4. Initiating project management for new services
5. Officially authorizing the allocation of resources for new services



Question

The cell phone provider wants to assess CSFs, KPIs, and challenges and risks associated with Service Portfolio Management.

What are examples of these?

Options:
1.Last-minute changes in design specifications
2.Failure to focus on required business outcomes in the Service Portfolio
3.Lack of access to information about customers
4.The CSF of appropriate value provision by services, as measured through Return on Investment (ROI)
5.Failure to track and control service costs

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. The Service Portfolio Management process doesn't directly involve service design. It involves the creation and maintenance of a portfolio of all services, including proposed new, existing, and retired services.

Option 2: Correct. If a Service Portfolio focuses only on the details of service provision and doesn't include information about required business outcomes, it's difficult to calculate the value of services or to determine whether they're meeting customers' requirements.

Option 3: Correct. If a service provider has insufficient access to information about what business outcomes customers require from services, it will be difficult to assess the value of those services.

Option 4: Correct. Effective Service Portfolio Management depends on the accurate identification and measurement of the value provided by services. One of the main KPIs for measuring service value is the service's Return on Investments (ROI).

Option 5: Incorrect. Service Portfolio Management doesn't involve tracking or controlling actual costs.

Correct answer(s):

2. Failure to focus on required business outcomes in the Service Portfolio
3. Lack of access to information about customers
4. The CSF of appropriate value provision by services, as measured through Return on Investment (ROI)

Key Strategy Management considerations, as well as activities involved in both Strategy Management and Service Portfolio Management, have been identified.

Back to top
 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
 
Print 

Course Transcript
 

ITIL® 2011 Edition Foundation: Service Strategy Processes
  

Managing Service Strategy Processes

1. Demand Management

2. Financial Management for IT

3. Business Relationship Management

4. Manage Service Strategy
   

Demand Management
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•identify the challenges in managing demand for services
•distinguish between SLPs and CSPs
 
1. Managing demand for services

Demand Management is a critical process in developing and sustaining Service Strategy. It is important to manage demand correctly to avoid risk, which results because of the uncertainty of demand.

Demand Management involves interpreting and influencing customer demand for services, as well as providing capacity to meet those demands.

At a tactical level, Demand Management involves taking steps to influence and control demand in relation to risk and capacity. For example, it may involve using differential pricing structures to encourage customers to use IT services during non-peak network times.

Challenges that Demand Management attempts to overcome include
• idle capacity 
• insufficient capacity 
• synchronous production and consumption 
• and inability to manufacture services in advance 

In an attempt to meet demands, service providers may produce excess capacity, which turns into idle capacity. This is problematic because idle capacity doesn't generate returns or satisfy demand and is costly. The costs cannot be recovered from customers because the idle capacity doesn't contribute to meeting their demands.

For example, if a service provider offers a help desk service at a per-use cost to the customer and the service is underutilized, idle capacity exists.

There are circumstances in which a certain degree of unused capacity is required for service delivery and managing demand. The excess capacity is valuable because it enables a service provider to guarantee a higher level of service delivery.

For example, if an IT service provider offers a help desk service at a fixed cost to an organization and the service is underutilized, unused capacity exists.

Unused capacity differs from idle capacity in that it serves a purpose associated with meeting demand.

Insufficient capacity affects service quality and hinders the growth of a service. To avoid this, service providers must agree on service levels through planning, forecasting, and close coordination with customers.

This can help to alleviate demand uncertainty, although uncertainty cannot be eliminated entirely.

A further challenge in managing demand for services is synchronous production and consumption. Consumption of IT services produces demand and production of IT services consumes demand in a synchronized pattern. This makes predicting and providing for demand difficult.



Graphic

Description of the diagram describing demand and capacity follows: The customer assets and service assets wheels are interconnected, when one turns, the other responds. The consumption cycle on the side of customer assets wheel produces demand and produces a pattern that affects service assets. The production cycle on the side of the service assets wheel consumes demand and responds with capacity to customer assets. Description ends.

Demand is the factor that pulls capacity – demand will not exist merely because capacity does. Service production is therefore inextricably linked to service consumption, where consumption cycles stimulate production cycles.

Demand Management activities aim to influence patterns of demand so that they are more predictable and so that service production can be more accurately aligned with demand. For example, volume discounts, off-peak pricing, and differentiated service levels are techniques used to influence patterns of demand.



Graphic

Description of the diagram describing how Demand Management influences patterns of demand follows: The business process and service process wheels are interconnected, when one turns, the other responds. The wheels are part of the service belt. The pattern of business activity on the side of the business process wheel produces a pattern of business activity, which in turn produces a demand pattern that affects the service process. The capacity management plan on the side of the service process wheel produces the delivery schedule for the business process. Demand Management not only influences the capacity management plan, but also provides incentives and penalties to influence consumption, which creates the pattern of business activity. Description ends.

Services cannot be manufactured in advance and stockpiled in anticipation of demand in the way that goods can be. Demand and capacity are more closely linked in service systems due to the synchronous nature of production and consumption cycles.

Although resources used in producing a service may be increased when demand increases and released when demand diminishes, it isn't possible to produce and stock service output before demand actually materializes.

Demand Management tries to influence patterns of demand so that they are more predictable and services can be provisioned accordingly.



Question

What are the challenges in managing demand for services?

Options:
1.Synchronous production and consumption
2.Inability to manufacture services in advance
3.Idle capacity
4.Unused capacity
5.Insufficient capacity
6.Off-peak pricing and differentiated service levels

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The consumption of services produces demand and, in turn, services are produced to consume demand in a synchronized pattern. This makes predicting demand for services challenging.

Option 2: Correct. Unlike goods, services cannot be manufactured in advance and stockpiled until there is a demand for them. As a result, demand and capacity are very closely linked in service systems.

Option 3: Correct. Excess capacity that is idle is costly, and doesn't return sufficient value to justify it. The cost of idle capacity can't be recovered from customers because it doesn't increase service value to them.

Option 4: Incorrect. Unused capacity is sometimes necessary for service delivery. It may be valuable if it enables a service provider to guarantee a higher level of service delivery. This differs from idle capacity, which is generated without a demand to justify it.

Option 5: Correct. When capacity is insufficient, there is usually a drop in service quality and the growth of a service is hindered.

Option 6: Incorrect. Off-peak pricing and differentiated services levels are techniques used to manage demand. These activities aim to influence patterns of demand so that they are more predictable and so that service production can be better aligned with demand.

Correct answer(s):

1. Synchronous production and consumption
2. Inability to manufacture services in advance
3. Idle capacity
5. Insufficient capacity

2. Services and service packages

Types of services that organizations provide include
supporting servicesSupporting services, also known as an infrastructure service, are ones that are not directly used by the business but is required to provide IT services.internal customer-facing servicesInternal customer facing services are ones that supports a process managed by another business unit or function.external customer-facing servicesExternal customer-facing services are ones that are provided directly to the external customer.
Whether the services are internal or external, they can be further categorized as core, enabling, or enhancing.



Graphic

Description of Table 3.5 – Examples of core, enabling and enhancing services follows:

The table compares core, enabling, and enhancing services. It consists of four columns – one for the type of IT service, and one for each of the three types of services. There are two rows in this table, representing office automation and benefits tracking.

Description ends.

Core services provide the basic outcomes desired by the customer and are the basis of the value proposition for the customer. They facilitate customer satisfaction and continued use of the IT service provider.

For example, a core service could be word processing or employees monitoring the status of benefits.

Enabling services are supporting services that enable customers to use core services effectively. Customers expect enabling services to be offered without any additional charge.

For example, an enabling service could be downloading and installing of updates or a portal that provides user-friendly access to benefits.

Enhancing services are supporting services that differentiate core services from the services provided by other organizations. Often, enhancing services become enabling or even core services in time, depending on changes to the market space.

For example, an enhancing service could be documenting publications to professional printers for high-quality brochures or creating or managing a fitness or weight-loss programme.



Question

Match each type of service to the correct definition.

Options:
A.Core services
B.Supporting services
C.Enabling services
D.Enhancing services

Targets:
1.Provide the basic outcomes desired by customers
2.Enable or enhance a key service
3.Enable customers to use key services effectively
4.Provide differentiation from the services offered by other organizations

Answer

Core services are the basis of the value proposition for the customer and facilitate customer satisfaction. They provide the outcomes that customers require and value.

Supporting services enable the delivery of core services. They may also enable organizations to differentiate the services they offer from those offered by competing organizations.

Enabling services are supporting services that enable customers to use core services, and are typically provided free of additional charge.

Enhancing services are supporting services that enable service providers to be competitive, by differentiating their services from those offered by other organizations. Often enhancing services become enabling or core services in time, as changes in the market space occur.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

A service package is a detailed description of a set of related services that is available for delivery to customers. It is made up of one or more core services, as well as supporting services.

Bundling core services with supporting services is an essential aspect of a marketing strategy.

When making a decision to bundle services, the following guidelines should be followed:
• conduct a thorough analysis of the business environment 
• take a long-term view 
• consider implications for the design and operation of services 
• devote sufficient attention to supporting services 
• consider offering supporting services on their own 

It's important for IT service providers to conduct a thorough analysis of the business environment, so that they are aware of the current conditions of their business sector. This includes identifying the needs of the customers they serve and the alternative solutions that are available to those customers.

The decision to package core and supporting IT services must be guided by a strategic long-term view so that the value of services for customers will be sustained, even if industry practices, norms, regulations, and technologies change.

IT service providers must consider how creating service packages may have implications for the design and operation of services.

When bundling services, it is necessary to decide whether to standardize the core or supporting services in the package.

The same level of differentiation necessary can still be achieved by taking different approaches to bundling services. However, this may affect the costs and risks involved in different ways. Processes in the Service Transition stage guide these decisions.

A further guideline to consider when packaging services is to devote enough attention to supporting services. It is essential to focus on the delivery of core services, but the supporting services in a package cannot be neglected.

Customer satisfaction surveys indicate that supporting services are often a source of dissatisfaction, even when core services are being delivered.

IT service providers should also consider offering supporting services on their own. For example, technical support or help desk services that usually form part of service packages can be offered as separate services. Service providers make such decisions based on different Service Portfolios.



Question

What guidelines should IT service providers consider when making the decision to package services?

Options:
1.Consider offering supporting services on their own
2.Analyze the business environment
3.Consider offering core services on their own
4.Take a long-term view
5.Provide service package offers for short periods only
6.Devote enough attention to supporting services
7.Considering implications for the design and operation of services

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Services that are usually offered as part of a package, like help desk services, may be offered as a separate services, depending on different Service Portfolios.

Option 2: Correct. IT service providers must analyze the business environment of the sectors for which they offer services so that they are aware of current conditions and can cater for customers' needs appropriately.

Option 3: Incorrect. IT service providers may choose to offer supporting services that are usually packaged with core services on their own. However, one or more core services will always form part of a service package.

Option 4: Correct. It's important for IT service providers to take a long-term view when packaging services so that the value of services for customers will be sustained, even if changes in the industry occur.

Option 5: Incorrect. Service packages affect the design and operation of services. Therefore, it's essential to take a long-term view when packaging services so that the value they provide can be sustained into the future. It would be too costly to package services for short periods only.

Option 6: Correct. Because customer satisfaction is often dependent on the delivery of supporting services, sufficient attention must be paid to these services. Even if core services are delivered, poor supporting services are likely to result in customer dissatisfaction.

Option 7: Correct. There are design and operational factors to take into account when bundling services. IT service providers must decide whether to standardize the core or supporting services in a package, and take the need for differentiation into account.

Correct answer(s):

1. Consider offering supporting services on their own
2. Analyze the business environment
4. Take a long-term view
6. Devote enough attention to supporting services
7. Considering implications for the design and operation of services

3. SLPs and CSPs

A service package, which is used in Demand Management as a strategy to meet demand for services, includes at least one Service Level Package (SLP). An SLP is a defined level of utility and warranty for a particular service package.

Each SLP is designed to meet the needs of a particular service fulfillment need, although it may fulfill the more than one need. It helps to develop IT service packages according to the particular needs of a segment of users.



Graphic

Description of the Service Level Package diagram follows:

Customer outcome links to customer assets which links to business activity patterns. Service fulfillment needs link to demand pattern for service which links to Service Level Package. Customer outcome also links to Service Level Package. Customer assets links to demand pattern for service.

Description ends.

SLPs are associated with a set of service levels, pricing policies, and a Core Service Package (CSP). A CSP is a detailed description of a core service that may be shared by two or more SLPs, providing a platform of utility for the SLPs.

CSPs offer the advantage of maintaining tight control over core IT services. Each of multiple business units can develop SLPs to serve their own market spaces, but use centrally defined CSPs as the basis for providing core services within each service package.

SLPs are combined with CSPs to build a Service Catalog with segmentation.

Service Catalogs are also made up of a collection of Lines of Service (LOS). These combine the most preferred utility and warranty for a segment of customers.

Each LOS has one or more service offerings. In turn, each service offering is made up of CSPs and SLPs.

Question Set



Service packages are made up of SLPs, which in turn use CSPs to provide a defined level of utility and warranty for customers.

Question 1 of 2



Question

Identify the features of an SLP.

Options:
1.It enables tight control over core services
2.It is made up of a collection of Lines of Service (LOS)
3.It defines the level of utility and warranty associated with a set of services
4.It is designed to meet the needs of a particular service fulfillment need
5.It is associated with a set of service levels and pricing policies

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. CSPs – rather than SLPs – are advantageous because they maintain control over core services that can be used by more than one business unit.

Option 2: Incorrect. Service Catalogs – rather than SLPs – consist of a collection of LOS.

Option 3: Correct. Service packages are made up of at least one SLP, which is a defined level of utility and warranty for a particular service package.

Option 4: Correct. SLPs aim to meet the needs of a particular service fulfillment need, although they may fulfill more than one need.

Option 5: Correct. SLPs are defined by the levels of service they aim to provide for particular customers. They are also defined by pricing policies.

Correct answer(s):

3. It defines the level of utility and warranty associated with a set of services
4. It is designed to meet the needs of a particular service fulfillment need
5. It is associated with a set of service levels and pricing policies

Question 2 of 2



Question

Identify the features of a CSP.

Options:
1.It is associated with an SLP
2.It provides a detailed description of core services
3.It is designed to meet the needs associated with a particular service fulfillment need
4.It helps maintain control over SLPs
5.It helps maintain control over core services

Answer

Option 1: Correct. CSPs describe the core services included in SLPs.

Option 2: Correct. CSPs provide descriptions of core services that may be shared by two or more SLPs.

Option 3: Incorrect. SLPs – rather than CSPs – are designed to meet the needs of particular service fulfillment needs.

Option 4: Incorrect. An advantage of CSPs is that they maintain tight control over core services. They don't, however, maintain control over SLPs.

Option 5: Correct. CSPs are advantageous because they maintain tight control over core services that can be used by multiple business units.

Correct answer(s):

1. It is associated with an SLP
2. It provides a detailed description of core services
5. It helps maintain control over core services

4. Summary

Demand Management is a process that involves activities which interpret and influence customer demand for services and service fulfillment need, as well as the provision of capacity to meet those demands and needs. The challenges involved in managing demand include idle or insufficient capacity, synchronous production and consumption, and the inability to manufacture services in advance.

IT service providers can provide four types of services – core, supporting, enabling, and enhancing services. Core services and supporting services can be bundled together to form service packages.

Service packages are made up of at least one Service Level Package (SLP), which in turn is associated with a Core Service Package (CSP). SLPs are combined with CSPs to build a Service Catalog, which includes a collection of Lines of Service (LOS).

Back to top
 

Financial Management for IT
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize the characteristics of Financial Management concepts
•recognize examples of Financial Management key inputs
•recognize examples of Financial Management key outputs
•recognize key features of Risk Management
 
1. Benefits and concepts

Financial Management involves managing an IT service provider's budgeting, accounting, and charging requirements.

The benefits of Financial Management for IT are its
operational visibility, insight, and superior decision-makingOperational visibility, insight, and superior decision-making are the central benefits brought to organizations using Financial Management. In the same way that business units gather benefits from analyzing customer profiles and product behavior, the analysis of financial data is equally beneficial to organizations.
use as a strategic tool, andAs a strategic tool, Financial Management can be applied to all three service provider types. More and more internal service providers are required to operate with similar levels of financial visibility and accountability as their business unit and external counterparts.
ability to demonstrate the value of IT servicesFinancial Management demonstrates the value of IT services in financial terms. It also quantifies the value of the assets underlying the provisioning of those services. A large portion of Financial Management is working together with business customers to identify, document, and agree on the value of the services that are received.



Question

What benefits does Financial Management bring to an IT organization?

Options:
1.It is a useful strategic tool
2.It helps manage customer demand
3.It brings operational visibility, insight, and superior decision-making
4.It defines the services that an organization provides
5.It demonstrates the value of IT services

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Financial Management can be applied by all three service provider types as a strategic tool to facilitate financial visibility and accountability.

Option 2: Incorrect. Processes and functions in Demand Management enable service providers to manage customer demand for services.

Option 3: Correct. The analysis of financial data by organizations is beneficial because it provides operational visibility and insight, and enables superior decision-making.

Option 4: Incorrect. Defining the services that an organization provides is a function of Service Portfolio Management (SPM).

Option 5: Correct. Financial Management demonstrates the value of IT services in financial terms and quantifies the value of the assets underlying the provisioning of those services.

Correct answer(s):

1. It is a useful strategic tool
3. It brings operational visibility, insight, and superior decision-making
5. It demonstrates the value of IT services

The activities that form part of Financial Management don't occur only within the finance and accounting domain of an organization. Financial information is generated and consumed by many parts of an organization.

The processes of Financial Management aggregate data input from across an organization and then generate information from this data as an output. This information is then disseminated across the organization.

Some of the concepts associated with Financial Management include
service valuationService valuation involves quantifying the funding sought for services that have been delivered, according to the value that was agreed for those services. Financial Management quantifies a fiscal value for a service or service component.
accounting, andAccounting within Financial Management is different to traditional accounting because further categories and characteristics are defined. These help to identify and keep track of service-oriented expenses or capital items. Service-oriented accounting facilitates a greater understanding of service requirements and consumption. It also generates data that is used during the planning process.
cost modelingCost modeling is a framework for identifying the costs of providing services and determining whether those costs are allocated optimally.



Question

Match the Financial Management concept to its purpose.

Options:
A.Service valuation
B.Accounting
C.Cost modeling

Targets:
1.Quantifies the funding sought for delivered services
2.Identifies and keeps track of service-oriented expenses or capital items
3.Determines optimal costs for providing services

Answer

Service valuation involves quantifying the funding sought for services that have been delivered, according to the value that was agreed for those services.

Accounting within Financial Management differs from traditional accounting in that it uses further categories and characteristics to help identify and keep track of service-oriented expenses or capital items.

A cost model identifies where money is being spent and if that spending is optimal.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

2. Key inputs and outputs

The outputs that result from Financial Management serve as inputs to other Service Strategy processes and tools, such as Service Portfolio Management (SPM) and Service Provisioning Optimization (SPO).

Financial Management is an important input to SPM. By using the financial data generated through Financial Management processes to understand the cost structures involved in the provision of a service, organizations can benchmark the cost of a service against the cost offered by other service providers.

This enables organizations to make decisions on whether it is cost-effective to provide a service internally, or whether it would be beneficial to outsource the service at a lower cost.

Suppose an IT organization is considering creating a custom web site for a client as part of its offered services. However, data that is generated from Financial Management processes indicates that the cost of providing the service doesn't justify its value.

Through Financial Management, the organization also determines that other organizations can provide the service at a lower cost. The organization may therefore choose to outsource this service, which would affect the Service Portfolio it offers the client.

Financial Management provides inputs for SPO. SPO entails analyzing financial data relating to service components and delivery models to determine how to provide IT services at the best price and quality.

Often, an IT service that has been proposed for removal from the Service Portfolio will be analyzed using SPO, to determine if it is worthwhile to retain the IT service.

Through Financial Management, the IT organization that planned to offer a custom web site as part of its offered services identifies that the quality of this service is lower than the quality of a similar service offered by a competitor.

The relevant data would be used in SPO to determine whether to retain the service. For example, SPO may determine that the service can still be provided cost effectively and with higher quality through improved application software and better training.



Question

Identify examples that demonstrate how Financial Management provides key inputs for other processes and tools.

Options:
1.An IT organization realizes that it will be more cost-effective to outsource its help desk service based on financial data
2.An IT organization uses data obtained through Financial Management to determine the demand for its IT network administration service
3.An IT organization decides to package its online reservation service with four other supporting services
4.An IT organization analyzes financial data and decides to improve its web site creation service through improved application software

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Financial Management provides inputs to SPM, which determines the set of IT services provided to customers and the way in which those services are provisioned.

Option 2: Incorrect. Although Financial Management provides information regarding the financial requirements for providing a service based on demand projections, it does not directly determine demand for an IT service.

Option 3: Incorrect. Financial Management is not responsible for determining how IT services should be packaged. This is a function of Demand Management.

Option 4: Correct. Financial Management provides inputs to SPO which determines how an IT service can be improved. SPO may be used to determine whether an IT service should be retired or retained.

Correct answer(s):

1. An IT organization realizes that it will be more cost-effective to outsource its help desk service based on financial data
4. An IT organization analyzes financial data and decides to improve its web site creation service through improved application software

Financial Management contains three outputs.
planning confidenceFinancial Management aims to ensure that there is sufficient funding available for the delivery and consumption of services. The financial data generated by Financial Management provides service providers with planning confidence. Planning facilitates the financial translation and qualification of forecasted future demand for services. 
service investment analysis modelsFinancial Management provides standardized service investment analysis models that are used throughout an organization to assess the expected value of a service. Service investment analysis derives an indication of value for the entire lifecycle of a service, based on the value received and the costs incurred during the service's lifecycle. 
complianceFinancial Management procedures ensure the compliance of an organization with regulations and accepted business practices. Compliance ensures that proper and consistent accounting practices are followed and documented. 

The IT organization that improved its capabilities to provide a web site creation service predicts that projected demand for this service will increase revenues by over 30% for the next year. This planning confidence is a result of Financial Management processes.

Through service investment analysis, which uses data derived from Financial Management processes, the organization determines that the value of the improved web site creation service is 25% higher than the projected costs associated with it.



Question

Match the example to the output of Financial Management that it represents.

Options:
A.An IT organization is able to forecast financial data on projected demand for its online air travel reservation service
B.An IT organization is able to assess the expected value of its online air travel reservation service
C.An IT organization is able to assure its stakeholders that it adheres to good business practices

Targets:
1.Planning confidence
2.Service investment analysis models
3.Compliance

Answer

Financial Management enables organizations to be confident in their planning and predictions, by providing clear financial data on which to base planning and forecasts.

Financial Management enables organizations to analyze the outcomes of service investments – such as the expected value of a service – using standardized models.

Financial Management enables organizations to ensure that they are compliant with accepted accounting practices and regulations.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

3. Business case

A business case is a decision support and planning tool that projects the likely consequences of a business action, such as a service management initiative.

The consequences can have both qualitative and quantitative dimensions.

For example, a financial analysis provides quantitative information about likely financial consequences, and is often central to a business case. However, more qualitative consequences like improvements in an organization's market image may also be specified.

The structure of a business case for a service initiative varies from organization to organization. However, most business cases have a generic structure that includes five main components:
• an introduction that presents the business objectives addressed by the initiative 
• a methods and assumptions section that defines the boundaries of the business action – such as time and cost limits – and assumptions on which the business case is based 
• a business impact section that covers the projected financial and non-financial results of the initiative 
• a risks and contingencies section, which allows for the probability that alternative results will emerge 
• a recommendations section that proposes specific actions to be taken 

All business cases include a detailed analysis of business impacts – the likely effects or benefits of business actions.

Business impacts are in turn linked to business objectives.

A business objective is a goal that an organization sets for itself. It is a business-related reason for considering a service management initiative in the first place.

Objectives should be defined broadly in a business case.

Commercial organizations' objectives are generally concerned with financial and organizational issues.

The objectives of non-profit organizations usually focus on the people or membership served, as well as on financial and organizational issues.

Business objectives usually fall into one of four categories:
operationalOperational objectives deal with the day-to-day or short-term planning or delivery of a business process. An example of an operational objective is to increase productivity by a specified percentage.financialFinancial objectives relate to improving profits and the management of financial resources. An example of a financial objective is to increase revenues by a specified margin.strategic, andStrategic objectives deal with long-term planning to achieve the overall vision of an organization. An example of a strategic objective is to improve the professionalism of an organization.industryIndustry objectives involve better branding and positioning of an organization in the marketplace. An example of an industry objective is to increase market share.
Ultimately a business impact won't have value for an organization unless it is linked to a business objective.

However, business impacts and business objectives do not always have a one-to-one relationship.

A single business impact can affect multiple business objectives.

For example, the business impact of improved service maintainability may achieve the business objectives of lower costs, customer satisfaction, and improved market image.

Similarly, multiple business impacts may contribute to a single business objective.

For instance, the impacts of improved service reliability and maintainability, and of improvements to service offerings, may all contribute to the objective of improving customer satisfaction.

A business case argument usually rests on the basis of a cost analysis, although this is not the only aspect to consider when dealing with a service management initiative.

The business case should focus on both financial and non-financial impacts, and it should link these impacts clearly to business objectives.

4. Risk management

Risk is defined as uncertainty of outcome. It can take the form of positive opportunities or negative threats.

Risk Management involves the identification and control of exposure to risks that may have an impact on the achievement of an organization's business objectives.

Every organization manages its risks, but not always in a way that is visible, repeatable, and consistently applied to support decision making.

The purpose of Risk Management is to ensure that the organization makes cost-effective use of a risk framework that has a series of well-defined steps.

The aim is to support better decision making through a good understanding of risks and their likely impacts.

Risk Management includes two distinct phases - risk analysis and the management of risk.

Risk analysis is concerned with gathering information about exposure to risks so that an organization can make informed decisions and manage the risks appropriately.



Graphic

Description of diagram describing a generic framework for risk management follows:

A flowchart displays three steps in sequence – Identify the risks, Identify probable risk owners, and Evaluate the risks.

Description ends.

It also involves identifying and determining the level of the risks, based on the assessed values of assets and the levels of threats posed to those assets.



Graphic

Description of the diagram describing a generic framework for risk management follows:

After the first three steps, there are two additional steps Set acceptable levels of risk (tolerance/'appetite'), and Identify suitable responses to risk.

Description ends.

After risks have been analyzed, effective Risk Management involves determining and implementing appropriate risk responses.

It also involves monitoring the risks to ensure the chosen responses are effective, and regularly reviewing risks to track their status.



Graphic

Description of the diagram describing a generic framework for risk management follows:

A flowchart identifies three steps that follow after risk analysis. In sequence, they are Implement responses, Gain assurances about effectiveness, and Embed and review.

Description ends.

Risk management forms an important aspect of many other areas of management, including
• business continuity management 
• security management 
• program and project risk management, and 
• operational service management 

All organizations need to take risks to achieve their objectives. So the main aim of Risk Management isn't to eliminate risks, but to manage them effectively in order to improve performance.

Effective management of risk helps improve performance by
• increasing certainty and lessening surprises 
• improving service delivery and so protecting against client dissatisfaction and loss of market share 
• resulting in more effective management of change in response to customer or market needs, and political or cultural changes 
• resulting in more efficient use of resources 
• improving management at all levels due to better decision making 
• reducing waste and fraud, and increasing value for money 
• encouraging innovation through new technologies so that opportunities can be exploited, and 
• managing contingent and maintenance activities for dealing with any threats once they actually occur 

Risk Management must be carried out with the issues of health and safety, security, and business continuity in mind.

Health and safety policy and practice is concerned with ensuring that the workplace is a safe environment.

Security deals with protecting an organization’s assets – for example, its computer equipment, data, and buildings.

Business continuity ensures that an organization can continue to function in the event of major disasters such as fires, floods, or loss of service.

One purpose of Risk Management is finding weaknesses in supplier arrangements that could pose a threat to an organization.

When working with suppliers, Risk Management focuses on threats to
• customer satisfaction 
• brand image 
• market share 
• share price 
• profitability, and 
• regulatory impacts or penalties that are industry dependent 

The nature of the relationship with a supplier determines the level of risk to an organization. Risks from an external supplier are generally greater and more difficult to deal with than those associated with using an internal supplier.

Any risks that come out of the relationship need to be identified and managed appropriately.

Prior to commencing any contract, a risk assessment should be done.

Risks should also be re-assessed and monitored when changes occur to business needs, the operating environment, or contract scope.

Both the organization and the supplier should consider the threats posed to their own assets due to their relationship, and have their own risk profiles.

The risk owners of each organization must be identified. These are the people who assume responsibility for relevant risks. It can also be beneficial to involve supplier experts in the risk assessment process.

A risk assessment normally consider threats that could affect the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of one or more assets.

A risk assessment should generally identify
• relevant risks, including threats and opportunities 
• the likely impact of each threat 
• the total impact of the risks 
• the probability of each threat occurring 
• possible actions or controls for managing each threat based on its impact or cost, and 
• the person responsible for each risk and for implementing the chosen response 



Question

A fire at an organization's main branch has damaged a large amount of equipment.

Which aspect of Risk Management should be implemented to address the problem?

Options:
1.Management of contingent and maintenance activities
2.Improved management at all levels due to better decision making
3.Improved innovation
4.More effective change management

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Contingency plans in case of failures, security breaches, or natural disasters are a vital component of a Risk Management strategy.

Option 2: Incorrect. Improved management through better decision making is not relevant in this case – the damage has already occurred and contingency plans must be implemented.

Option 3: Incorrect. Encouraging innovation is useful for exploiting new opportunities, rather than for managing threats once they have been realized.

Option 4: Incorrect. In this case, the need is to respond to a threat that has already occurred, rather than to respond to a change in the context or requirements for service delivery.

Correct answer(s):

1. Management of contingent and maintenance activities

5. Summary

Financial Management involves managing a service provider's budgeting, accounting, and charging requirements. Benefits of Financial Management are that it provides operational visibility, insight, and superior decision-making, can be used as a strategic tool, and demonstrates the financial value of IT services. Financial Management can be viewed broadly in terms of concepts, inputs, and outputs. The concepts associated with Financial Management are service valuation and accounting.

Financial Management processes provide inputs for other processes and tools, such as Service Portfolio Management (SPM) and Service Provisioning Optimization (SPO). The outputs of Financial Management include planning confidence, service investment analysis models, and compliance.

A business case is a decision support and planning tool that projects the likely consequences of a business action. It should also link each potential impact with a specific business objective.

Risk Management involves identifying and controlling an organization's exposure to risks that may affect the achievement of its business objectives. It requires the use of a well-defined set of steps for both risk analysis and management.

Back to top
 

Business Relationship Management
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize key considerations for business relationship management in an organization's IT services 
•describe how business relationship management supports customer satisfaction in Service Strategy
•identify key CSFs, KPIs, challenges and risks of business relationship management
 
1. The BRM process

The Business Relationship Management (BRM) process involves maintaining a positive relationship with customers.

It identifies customer needs and ensures that an IT service provider can meet these needs with an appropriate catalog of services. It should also account for any changes in customers' needs over time.

BRM can help an IT service provider articulate the value of a service and communicate this to customers, in order to align customers' expectations with what's being offered.

BRM can also involve verifying that a service provider can meet customers' expectations before it agrees to deliver a service.

In addition, BRM can help organizations meet objectives in relation to
IT service deliveryIn the area of delivery, BRM helps IT service providers and customers work together to ensure that services meet customer requirements and add value. Its focus on the customer's perspective of service also helps service providers prioritize their services and service assets appropriately.responsivenessBRM helps IT service providers and customers establish and articulate business requirements. It also identifies technology trends and changes in the customer environment – both of which may affect the required type, level, or utilization of services.

As a result, BRM can improve an organization's responsiveness to changes in customers' needs. It may identify a need to introduce new services or change existing ones.and problem managementWhen problems arise in the service provider-customer relationship, BRM helps establish formal processes that customers can use to register complaints and for the escalation of issues. BRM also involves mediating in cases where there are conflicting requirements for services from different business units.
In terms of scope, BRM focuses on understanding and communicating
• the business outcomes that customers want 
• the services currently being offered to customers and how they're being used 
• how services are currently offered, including who's responsible for the services, agreed levels of service quality, and any anticipated changes in the services 
• technology trends that may affect services or customers' requirements 
• levels of customer satisfaction and current processes for addressing causes of any dissatisfaction 
• how to optimize services for the future, and 
• how customers perceive the service provider 

The personnel involved in BRM differ for
internal service providers, andFor an internal service provider, BRM is typically the responsibility of the service provider's senior IT representative and senior managers from customers' business units. The emphasis is on aligning the objectives of the business units with the activities of the service provider.external service providersFor an external service provider, BRM is often handled by dedicated managers. Each manager focuses on managing the provider's relationship with either a single customer or a small group of customers. The emphasis is on maximizing customer satisfaction.
BRM depends on a number of other service management processes and functions, including Service Portfolio Management, Configuration Management, Capacity Management, and Service Level Management.

These complementary processes focus on what services to provide and the extent to which existing services meet stated requirements – whereas BRM focuses on customer relationships.

BRM and Service Level Management, or SLM, differ in terms of
purposeBRM's purpose is to ensure that a service provider meets customers' needs, in terms of utility and warranty.

SLM's purpose is to negotiate service level agreements – or SLAs – and warranty terms with customers, and to ensure that all service management processes, operational level agreements, and underpinning contracts are appropriate for the agreed service level targets.focus, andBRM's focus is strategic and tactical. It focuses on the overall relationship between a service provider and customers.

SLM's focus is tactical and operational. It focuses on establishing required service levels and ensuring that the service provider meets these.primary measureBRM's primary measure is customer satisfaction.

The success of SLM is primarily measured based on how well a service provider meets agreed levels of service.
BRM can benefit IT service providers by clarifying customers' business needs.

It creates a forum for ongoing, structured communication with customers. This helps ensure that customers' business needs are met. Over the long term, it also promotes better alignment of services with customer needs.

The communication involved in BRM ensures that the service provider understands a customer's business better – and that the customer understands the service provider's capabilities and services.

Other benefits of BRM are that it
• helps ensure customers' expectations are realistic 
• puts a human face on the service provider 
• enables quick resolution of disagreements about what should be delivered – without speculation or mistrust 
• facilitates higher levels of trust that the service provider is going to deliver value in future 
• encourages service providers and customers to work together as strategic partners, and 
• provides a more accurate measure of the real value that a service provider is adding to customers' businesses 



Question

A university's IT Department is using BRM.

Which statements accurately describe BRM's objectives and scope?

Options:
1.It involves monitoring how well the IT Department meets agreed service targets
2.It may include identifying mobile computing trends that will affect other departments' computing needs
3.It can help the IT Department identify and meet the computing needs of other departments
4.It defines the minimum requirements the department must meet in terms of service provision
5.It can help the IT Department resolve complaints about network downtime

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. SLM – rather than BRM – involves establishing SLAs and monitoring the service provider's performance in meeting them.

Option 2: Correct. One aspect of BRM is anticipating and responding to likely changes in customers' service needs – for example, due to new trends in technology.

Option 3: Correct. The main purpose of BRM is to help a service provider identify and meet customers' needs.

Option 4: Incorrect. SLM – rather than BRM – involves establishing SLAs.

Option 5: Correct. An aspect of BRM is ensuring that processes are in place for managing customer complaints appropriately, and for addressing their causes.

Correct answer(s):

2. It may include identifying mobile computing trends that will affect other departments' computing needs
3. It can help the IT Department identify and meet the computing needs of other departments
5. It can help the IT Department resolve complaints about network downtime

2. BRM and customer satisfaction

The role of the business relationship manager isn't quite the same as the BRM process.

The main work of business relationship managers relates to the BRM process, but their high-level roles give them broad involvement across different processes.

For example, gathering customer requirements feeds into the processes of Service Portfolio Management and Demand Management.

Also, initiating communication with customers assists in the Project Management process.

Each business relationship manager makes use of a Customer Portfolio, which is a database or structured document that records information about all of an IT service provider's customers.

The Customer Portfolio enables the IT service provider to quantify its commitments, investments, and risks relative to each customer.

It's useful to document information about customers in a Customer Portfolio for several reasons. For example, recording who has decision-making authority in the customer's organization can help protect against unauthorized personnel making demands on the service provider.

A Customer Portfolio also enables the service provider to document customer leads and follow up on these opportunities to expand its market share.

For each customer, a Customer Portfolio typically records specific information:
• the customer's name 
• any authorized customer representatives 
• the business relationship manager's name 
• a description of the customer’s business and required key business outcomes 
• a list of services provided to the customer, along with any specific commitments for those services 
• historic and projected revenue, along with margins – in the case of external service providers 

For each customer, a Customer Portfolio may also include other details:
• a list of any meetings with the customer, with a list of the attendees and brief description of the meeting purpose and outcome 
• a description of any reports that are produced, who receives those reports, and what action will be taken as a result of the reports 
• a description of how and when the service provider's performance will be reviewed 
• an overview of past performance, including any major issues or events for the customer, and how these were handled 
• an outline of planned future IT services for the customer 
• a schedule of agreement or contract reviews 

The business relationship manager also makes use of a Customer Agreement Portfolio – which is a database or structured document used to manage service contracts, or agreements, with customers.

The Customer Agreement Portfolio should list the contract or agreement that relates to each IT service delivered to each customer.

A goal of BRM is to ensure the alignment of IT services to these agreements.

BRM directly influences customer satisfaction. It also involves measuring satisfaction levels, and comparing service provider performance with both customer satisfaction targets and previous scores.

According to the ITIL® Service Strategy volume, BRM promotes customer satisfaction by ensuring that the IT service provider understands the customer's objectives and overall requirements.

Information about customers is documented in a Customer Catalogue. BRM ensures that this information is appropriately linked to all potential services and agreements in the Service and Customer Agreement portfolios.

As agreement is reached about the type and level of service required, BRM initiates a Service Portfolio Management evaluation of whether that need will be met by a service currently in the Service Catalogue or pipeline.

At all stages in the service pipeline, through development and operation, BRM represents the customer's perspective and requirements. BRM also ensures that the customer is aware of the service provider's constraints and requirements.



Question

In the case of a university's IT Department using BRM, how does BRM support customer satisfaction?

Options:
1.It documents key information about different customers' requirements
2.It helps determine how well the IT Department is meeting agreed performance goals
3.It involves managing the IT Department's budgeting and charging requirements
4.It influences user groups' demands for different IT services
5.It focuses on providing better value to customers, based on better understanding of their needs
6.It enables the IT Department to manage service agreements with different academic departments

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Using a Customer Portfolio, BRM allows the IT Department to quantify its commitments, investments, and risks relative to the different customers.

Option 2: Correct. BRM measures customer satisfaction and compares the IT Department's performance against customer satisfaction targets.

Option 3: Incorrect. BRM doesn't involve managing a service provider's finances or budget – and financial management doesn't relate directly to customer satisfaction.

Option 4: Incorrect. BRM aims to uncover customers' business requirements and ensure that they're met. It doesn't involve actually influencing these requirements.

Option 5: Correct. The BRM process includes identifying and documenting customer requirements – with the purpose of aligning services to meet these requirements. The result is improved customer satisfaction.

Option 6: Correct. BRM involves using a Customer Agreement Portfolio to manage service agreements between an IT service provider and its customers – in this case, other university departments.

Correct answer(s):

1. It documents key information about different customers' requirements
2. It helps determine how well the IT Department is meeting agreed performance goals
5. It focuses on providing better value to customers, based on better understanding of their needs
6. It enables the IT Department to manage service agreements with different academic departments

3. BRM considerations

The BRM process could be triggered by several incidents, including
• a new strategic initiative 
• initiation of a new service or a change to an existing service 
• identification of a new opportunity 
• chartering of a service by service portfolio managers 
• customer requests, suggestions, or complaints 
• and scheduling of a customer meeting or of a customer satisfaction survey 

Inputs for BRM include all forms of feedback from customers, the IT service provider's strategy, the customer's strategy, and, when possible, the provider's IT Service Portfolio.

They also include the Project Portfolio, SLAs, Requests For Change – or RFCs, and User Profiles defined by Demand Management that need to be validated through BRM.

The outputs of BRM include stakeholder definitions, defined business outcomes, payment agreements, the Customer Portfolio, service strategy, design, and transition requirements, customer satisfaction surveys, and the published results of these surveys.

They also include schedules of customer activity in various Service Management process activities, a schedule of training and awareness events, and reports on customer perception of service performance.

BRM interfaces with many other management areas, including
Strategy ManagementStrategy Management involves working closely with BRM to identify market opportunities. BRM is instrumental in gathering strategic requirements, identifying desired business outcomes, and securing funding for internal or external initiatives.Service Portfolio ManagementBRM feeds into Service Portfolio Management, helping identify suitable services based on customer requirements.

In turn, BRM involves keeping customers updated about which services are available or soon will be.Financial ManagementBRM aids Financial Management by providing information about the financial objectives of customers. It also helps the IT service provider determine what prices each customer is prepared to accept.Demand ManagementBRM assists in Demand Management by identifying business and user profile patterns that indicate service demand levels, or changes in these. It can also involve working with customers to determine appropriate mechanisms for managing demand.Service Level Management, andService Level Management relies on information that BRM provides about customers' service requirements. BRM also ensures that SLAs are kept updated in the Customer Agreement Portfolio.Service Catalogue ManagementService Catalogue Management directly affects BRM. As IT services move from the service pipeline into a provider's Service Catalogue, it's important that the business relationship manager communicate the changes to customers. This keeps customers up to date and manages their expectations throughout the Design and Transition stages of the Service Lifecycle.
BRM also interfaces with
Capacity and Availability ManagementCapacity and Availability Management relies on information BRM provides about customers' IT service requirements. BRM can also help determine whether customers will be prepared to pay for proposed levels of service performance and availability.IT Service Continuity ManagementIn terms of IT Service Continuity Management, BRM helps ensure that counter-measures, recovery plans, and tests take customers' real requirements into account.Change ManagementBRM supports Change Management by helping identify changes that will improve an IT service provider's ability to meet customers' needs. It also involves assessing the impact and priority of changes, and ensures the appropriate level of customer involvement in the Change Management process.Release and Deployment Management, andBRM ensures the appropriate level of customer involvement in Release and Deployment Management, and service validation and testing.Service ImprovementsBRM helps in identifying Service Improvements that will help an IT service provider meet customers' existing and future needs. It also assists in validating, prioritizing, and communicating improvement plans with customers.
Many Critical Success Factors, or CSFs, must be in place for BRM to function optimally. Each of these CSFs can be measured using Key Performance Indicators, or KPIs.

Each organization is different, so each will have its own CSFs and KPIs that relate to BRM. However, commonly used CSFs for BRM relate to
requirements and outcomesA CSF for BRM is the ability to determine customers' key requirements and business outcomes. A KPI for measuring this is whether all customers' requirements have been documented and signed off by the customers. These then serve as inputs for the Service Portfolio Management and Service Design processes.customer satisfaction and follow-upAn important CSF for BRM is customer satisfaction levels. Feedback about this is an input for Service Portfolio Management and Strategy Management.

An associated KPI is how effectively the organization follows up on any indications of dissatisfaction. Any score lower than a defined level should result in an investigation into the cause and corrective action – involving Service Level Management, Problem Management, and Capacity Management, and among others.environmental changesAn important CSF is the ability to identify environmental changes that may affect the types, levels, or utilization of services that customers require. KPIs for measuring this include customer satisfaction and customer retention rates. A related KPI would be changes to services and strategy, resulting in improved customer satisfaction scores. For external service providers, this would be marked by increased revenue.technology trendsA CSF for BRM is the ability to identify technology trends that may affect customers' service requirements. 

A KPI to measure this would be the identification of opportunities leveraging new technologies – which would be included in the Service Portfolio. Each service opportunity's Return on Investment, or ROI, would be measured and a decision would be made to keep or retire the service, based on how effectively it met objectives.service changesA CSF for BRM is the ability to establish and articulate business requirements for service changes, including changes to existing services or the introduction of new services.

A KPI for measuring this is whether a comprehensive set of requirements is defined for each service, and whether these have been signed off by both business and IT leadership at the Strategy, Design, and Transition stages. Another KPI would be the documentation and signing off of the reasons for changes, the expected results, and detailed requirements for changes. This would occur at the Strategy, Design, and Transition stages.customer needs, andThe customer needs CSF is BRM being able to measure that the service provider is meeting the business needs of the customer. One KPI here would be the service provider consistently being rated above a defined minimum level in a structured customer satisfaction survey. Another KPI would be service performance being matched to business outcomes, and reported to the customer. Deviations from expected achievements would be documented and – as appropriate – an improvement opportunity logged in the CSI Register, or a change initiated to the Service Portfolio.complaintsAnother CSF includes having formalized complaints and escalation processes available to customers. The KPI for this CSF would be the measurement and trending of the number of complaints and escalations – grouped by customer and time period. Escalations must reduce over time. The number of complaints would vary, but care should be taken to investigate changes in trends. For example, more complaints may indicate that services are deteriorating. And fewer complaints could either indicate that services are improving, or the process is not being used.
BRM also comes with several challenges. For example, for BRM really to benefit an IT service-providing organization, it has to be closely integrated with the processes involved in defining IT services and tracking that they're delivered according to SLAs. It shouldn't involve focusing only superficially on customer satisfaction.

The effectiveness of BRM can be compromised by an organization's history of poor service – which may make customers less willing to share requirements, feedback, and opportunities.

Also note that the role of the business relationship manager and the process of BRM shouldn't be confused. Because business relationship managers often execute activities from other processes, it doesn't mean those activities are part of the BRM process.

Risks associated with BRM are that it may
overlap with other processes, andBecause BRM is closely related to a number of other processes, confusion could arise about the boundaries between these processes. If these boundaries aren't clearly defined, the BRM process may overlap with other processes. This could result in unnecessary duplication of work, interference, or particular activities being neglected.

For example, it's counter-productive for multiple processes to try to escalate the same incident in the same way.fail to be properly integratedBoth customer-facing processes – such as BRM – and those focusing more on technology – such as Capacity Management – are critical for success, and need to be properly integrated. If there's a disconnect between these two areas and the processes aren't properly integrated, BRM is likely to be ineffective.


Question

For the university IT Department using BRM, what are some of the key BRM challenges, risks, and CSFs?

Options:
1.The IT Department might limit BRM's role to that of a customer satisfaction tool
2.The IT helpdesk risks recording multiple logs for the same service issue
3.BRM has to quantify fiscal values for different service components
4.BRM must create service packages that align with the design and operation of services
5.BRM must be able to measure user satisfaction

Answer

Option 1: Correct. If BRM is to be effective, it has to be integrated with processes for defining services and tracking that they're delivered according to SLAs.

Option 2: Correct. When boundaries between BRM and other processes aren't clearly defined, it can result in duplication – for example, with more than one process escalating the same incident.

Option 3: Incorrect. BRM doesn't involve valuing services or other aspects of financial management.

Option 4: Incorrect. BRM doesn't involve creating service packages, although it supports the process of identifying suitable services based on customers' needs.

Option 5: Correct. The ability to measure customer satisfaction levels is a CSF that can be gauged by consistently high customer satisfaction ratings.

Correct answer(s):

1. The IT Department might limit BRM's role to that of a customer satisfaction tool
2. The IT helpdesk risks recording multiple logs for the same service issue
5. BRM must be able to measure user satisfaction

4. Summary

BRM ensures that IT service providers understand their customers' business requirements, and so can align their services to meet these requirements. It also involves communicating closely with customers.

BRM can help improve customer satisfaction, through the use of tools like the Customer Portfolio and a Customer Agreement Portfolio.

BRM has various inputs and outputs, and interfaces with areas such as Strategy Management and Financial Management. It also relies on a range of CSFs, each of which should be measured using particular KPIs.

Back to top
 

Manage Service Strategy
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize how to manage Service Strategy in given scenarios
 
1. Exercise Overview

In this exercise you're required to recognize how to manage Service Strategy processes in given scenarios.

This involves the following tasks:
•recognizing the methods used in the Demand Management process
•recognizing the benefits of Financial Management, and
•recognizing important aspects of Business Relationship Management (BRM)

2. Managing demand

To successfully implement a Service Strategy, the IT organization must be able to manage the demand for its services.

To do this, it uses a service fulfillment need, a User Profile (UP), and service package.



Question

What are the challenges in managing demand for services?

Options:
1.Synchronous production and consumption
2.Inability to manufacture services in advance
3.Idle capacity
4.Insufficient capacity
5.Asynchronous production and consumption
6.Differentiated service levels

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The consumption of services produces demand and, in turn, services are produced to consume demand in a synchronized pattern. This makes predicting demand for services challenging.

Option 2: Correct. Unlike goods, services cannot be manufactured in advance and stockpiled until there is a demand for them. As a result, demand and capacity are very closely linked in service systems.

Option 3: Correct. Excess capacity that is idle is costly, and doesn't return sufficient value to justify it. The cost of idle capacity can't be recovered from customers because it doesn't increase service value to them.

Option 4: Correct. When capacity is insufficient, there is usually a drop in service quality and the growth of a service is hindered.

Option 5: Incorrect. Synchronous, rather than asynchronous, production consumption is a challenge of managing demand for services.

Option 6: Incorrect. Differentiated service levels is a technique used to influence patterns of demand and not a challenge of managing demand for services.

Correct answer(s):

1. Synchronous production and consumption
2. Inability to manufacture services in advance
3. Idle capacity
4. Insufficient capacity



Question

What guidelines should the IT organization consider when developing service packages?

Options:
1.Take a long-term view
2.Devote sufficient attention to supporting services
3.Offer service packages for short periods only
4.Conduct a thorough analysis of the business environment
5.Consider removing supporting services from service packages
6.Consider offering supporting services on their own
7.Consider design and service operation implications

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The organization must take a long-term view when packaging its services so that the value of services for customers will be sustained, even if changes occur in the business sector.

Option 2: Correct. Customer satisfaction is often dependent on the delivery of supporting services. Therefore, sufficient attention must be given to these services.

Option 3: Incorrect. Due to the effect of service packages on the design and operation of services, the organization shouldn't take a short-term view when bundling services. The value of packaged services should be sustained into the future.

Option 4: Correct. The organization must analyze the business environment of the sectors for which it offer services so that it is aware of current conditions and can cater for customers' needs appropriately.

Option 5: Incorrect. Supporting services are an essential part of a service package. They enable or enhance the core services in a package and so shouldn't be removed.

Option 6: Correct. The organization may consider offering a supporting service – such as technical support, which is usually included in a service package – on its own.

Option 7: Correct. The organization must take design and operational factors into account when packaging its services. It must decide whether to standardize the core or supporting services in each package, while still taking the need for differentiation into consideration.

Correct answer(s):

1. Take a long-term view
2. Devote sufficient attention to supporting services
4. Conduct a thorough analysis of the business environment
6. Consider offering supporting services on their own
7. Consider design and service operation implications



Question

Match Service Level Package (SLP) and Core Service Package (CSP) to the appropriate description. A package may match to more than one description.

Options:
A.SLP
B.CSP

Targets:
1.Is designed to meet the need of a particular service fulfillment need
2.Is associated with sets of service levels and pricing policies
3.Provides detailed descriptions of the primary services in a package
4.Maintains control over the core services in a package 

Answer

The purpose of SLPs is to meet the needs of a particular service fulfillment need, although they may fulfil the needs of more than one service fulfillment need.

SLP is associated with the levels of service it aims to provide for customers. It is also defined by pricing policies.

CSP provides descriptions of core services that may be shared by two or more SLPs.

CSP maintains tight control over core services that can be used by multiple business units.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option A

Target 3 = Option B

Target 4 = Option B



Question

What are the challenges in managing demand for services?

Options:
1.Off-peak pricing and differentiated service levels
2.Idle capacity
3.Unused capacity
4.Insufficient capacity

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. Off-peak pricing and differentiated service levels are techniques used to manage demand. These activities aim to influence patterns of demand so that they are more predictable and so that service production can be better aligned with demand.

Option 2: Correct. Excess capacity that is idle is costly, and doesn't return sufficient value to justify it. The cost of idle capacity can't be recovered from customers because it doesn't increase service value to them.

Option 3: Incorrect. Unused capacity is sometimes necessary for service delivery. It may be valuable if it enables a service provider to guarantee a higher level of service delivery. This differs from idle capacity, which is generated without a demand to justify it.

Option 4: Correct. When capacity is insufficient, there is usually a drop in service quality and the growth of a service is hindered.

Correct answer(s):

2. Idle capacity
4. Insufficient capacity

3. Managing finances

As part of its implementation of Service Strategy, the IT organization uses Financial Management processes and activities.



Question

Which Financial Management concepts must the IT organization be aware of as part of implementing its Service Strategy?

Options:
1.Accounting
2.Cost modeling
3.Service Desk
4.UPs
5.Service valuation

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Accounting within Financial Management differs from traditional accounting in that it includes further categories and characteristics for tracking service-oriented expenses or capital items.

Option 2: Correct. Cost modeling is a framework for determining the costs of providing services and ensuring they are allocated correctly.

Option 3: Incorrect. The Service Desk is a function of the Service Lifecycle, but is not directly associated with Financial Management processes.

Option 4: Incorrect. UPs are used in Demand Management to manage demand for services. They aren't used as part of Financial Management.

Option 5: Correct. Service valuation involves quantifying the funding sought for services that have been delivered, according to the value that was agreed for those services.

Correct answer(s):

1. Accounting
2. Cost modeling
5. Service valuation



Question

Identify examples of how Financial Management provides key inputs for other Service Strategy processes used by the IT organization.

Options:
1.The organization uses financial data to determine that its network security service is not as reliable as similar services offered by its competitors
2.The organization determines that the existing service should be packaged with other supporting services
3.The organization decides to outsource its help desk support service because financial data indicates this is more cost effective
4.The organization determines the optimal expenditures on key services for the following year

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Data obtained through Financial Management processes may be used in SPO to determine whether or not to retain a service, based on its quality and cost effectiveness.

Option 2: Incorrect. Developing differentiated service packages is part of the Demand Management process.

Option 3: Correct. Financial data can be used to make adjustments to the way in which services are provisioned, which affects SPM.

Option 4: Correct. Financial management results in cost optimization decisions on where to spend and where to cut investment in particular services or infrastructure.

Correct answer(s):

1. The organization uses financial data to determine that its network security service is not as reliable as similar services offered by its competitors
3. The organization decides to outsource its help desk support service because financial data indicates this is more cost effective
4. The organization determines the optimal expenditures on key services for the following year



Question

Identify examples of key outputs of Financial Management for the IT organization.

Options:
1.The organization is able to recruit qualified and experienced staff
2.The organization determines that the return on its network security service will be 25%
3.The organization predicts that the total cost of utilization to the customer will increase by 5% over the next year
4.The organization is able to increase the number of services it offers
5.The organization can provide its stakeholders with complete financial data and documentation

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. Using Financial Management won't guarantee that the organization will be able to recruit highly qualified staff.

Option 2: Correct. By using data derived from Financial Management processes, the organization is able to create service investment analysis models to calculate returns on service investments.

Option 3: Correct. The outputs of Financial Management include financial requirements with a high degree of statistical accuracy. This enables the organization to be confident in predicting and determining financial requirements.

Option 4: Incorrect. The outputs derived from Financial Management do not guarantee increased resources, which would enable the organization to increase the number of services it provides.

Option 5: Correct. Using Financial Management processes ensures that the organization complies with good business and accounting practices.

Correct answer(s):

2. The organization determines that the return on its network security service will be 25%
3. The organization predicts that the total cost of utilization to the customer will increase by 5% over the next year
5. The organization can provide its stakeholders with complete financial data and documentation



Question

Suppose the organization wants to use an external supplier to provide certain services.

What are the main risks that must be considered when working with suppliers?

Options:
1.Customer satisfaction 
2.Brand image 
3.Market share
4.Security
5.Health and safety

Answer

Option 1: Correct. It's vital that the supplier maintain the same high levels of customer satisfaction as the organization. So the risk that this won't occur should be analyzed and addressed.

Option 2: Correct. It's important to assess the risk that the supplier may tarnish or alter the organization's brand image.

Option 3: Correct. The risk that using the supplier could result in a loss of market share should be analyzed and addressed. It's important to ensure that the supplier doesn't enable competitors to gain an advantage over the organization.

Option 4: Incorrect. Security issues must generally be addressed by the supplier providing the services.

Option 5: Incorrect. Any health and safety issues surrounding the provision of services will be the supplier's responsibility, rather than the responsibility of the organization contracting the supplier.

Correct answer(s):

1. Customer satisfaction 
2. Brand image 
3. Market share

4. Managing the business relationship

To create and maintain strong relationships with its customers, an IT organization can use the BRM process.



Question

A multinational electronics company uses BRM.

Which statements accurately describe BRM's objectives and scope in this context?

Options:
1.It involves ensuring customer complaints can be appropriately addressed
2.It involves identifying and reacting to the current levels of customer demand for IT services
3.It involves identifying corporate computing trends that may affect customers' future service needs
4.It gives the company insight into how it could alter its IT services to better meet customer needs
5.It involves financial analysis of the viability of particular services

Answer

Option 1: Correct. One aspect of BRM is ensuring that formal processes are in place for registering and escalating customer complaints, and for addressing the causes of these complaints.

Option 2: Incorrect. Demand Management – rather than BRM – involves interpreting and influencing customer demand for services.

Option 3: Correct. One aspect of BRM is identifying and analyzing technology trends that could affect customers' service requirements, so that services can be adjusted or introduced to meet new requirements.

Option 4: Correct. BRM involves working closely with customers to determine their needs and how particular services can address these.

Option 5: Incorrect. BRM doesn't involve financial analysis or any form of financial management.

Correct answer(s):

1. It involves ensuring customer complaints can be appropriately addressed
3. It involves identifying corporate computing trends that may affect customers' future service needs
4. It gives the company insight into how it could alter its IT services to better meet customer needs



Question

In the case of a large software development company using BRM, how does BRM support customer satisfaction?

Options:
1.It involves tracking the company's adherence to service level agreements, or SLAs
2.It gathers information that helps in the management of customer demand for IT services
3.It involves compiling detailed technological specifications
4.BRM minimizes customer frustration by assessing and resolving risks involved for customers software upgrades
5.It documents information about the company's interactions with customers
6.It involves monitoring how successful the company is in satisfying its customers

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The BRM process includes documenting SLAs in a Customer Agreement Portfolio, making it possible to track the company's performance in providing the agreed service levels.

Option 2: Correct. The information gathered through BRM about customers' requirements feeds into other processes, like Demand Management.

Option 3: Incorrect. BRM doesn't involve compiling detailed technological specifications. Its focus is on managing relationships with customers.

Option 4: Incorrect. Change Management – not BRM – deals with risk assessment in the transition of services.

Option 5: Correct. BRM involves recording information about the service provider's relationship with each customer, including details of any meetings, in a Customer Portfolio.

Option 6: Correct. BRM involves assessing and attempting to improve customer satisfaction levels.

Correct answer(s):

1. It involves tracking the company's adherence to service level agreements, or SLAs
2. It gathers information that helps in the management of customer demand for IT services
5. It documents information about the company's interactions with customers
6. It involves monitoring how successful the company is in satisfying its customers



Question

What are some of the key BRM challenges, risks, and critical success factors for an Internet service provider, or ISP?

Options:
1.BRM has to involve making regular backups of the content for customers' web sites and databases
2.BRM's reach has to extend beyond just telephonic helpdesk calls
3.BRM must clearly articulate customer requirements when a customer wants to purchase additional web-hosting services
4.BRM may prove ineffective if the service provider's IT managers are hesitant to cooperate
5.BRM has to continually align and realign IT services based on customers' changing service needs

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. BRM doesn't involve backing up customer data.

Option 2: Correct. BRM is more than just a customer satisfaction tool. It should be integrated with processes for defining IT services and tracking that they're delivered in accordance with SLAs.

Option 3: Correct. To measure such service changes, the IT service provider could compile a comprehensive document defining what is required, and signed off by both business and IT leadership.

Option 4: Correct. If the customer-focused BRM process isn't properly integrated with the technological-focused processes within the organization, the IT service provider may not be able to provide effective service to customers.

Option 5: Incorrect. Information obtained through BRM supports continual service improvement, but this isn't a direct function of BRM.

Correct answer(s):

2. BRM's reach has to extend beyond just telephonic helpdesk calls
3. BRM must clearly articulate customer requirements when a customer wants to purchase additional web-hosting services
4. BRM may prove ineffective if the service provider's IT managers are hesitant to cooperate

Service Strategy processes associated with Demand Management, Financial Management, and BRM have been identified.

Back to top
 

© 2017 Skillsoft Ireland Limited
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
 
Print 

Course Transcript
 

ITIL® 2011 Edition Foundation: Service Design Fundamentals
  

Introducing Service Design

1. Aspects of Service Design

2. Design Service Solutions and Service Portfolio

3. Design Technology and Management Architectures

4. Design Required Processes

5. Design Measurement Methods and Metrics

6. Understanding Service Design Aspects
   

Aspects of Service Design
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•identify the five aspects of Service Design
•recognize how to ensure that Service Design scope is aligned with business needs 
 
1. Aspects of Service Design

Service Design involves identifying the requirements for new IT services or processes and defining the solutions that meet these requirements.

Service Design is one of the stages in the ITIL® Service Lifecycle.



Graphic

The ITIL® Service Lifecycle contains five stages and is represented in a circle with multiple sections. Service Strategy exists in the inner circle. The three stages – Service Transition, Service Operation, and Service Design – share the middle circle. The outer circle contains the Continual Service Improvement stage.

The main purpose of Service Design is the design of new or changed services for introduction into the live environment.

There are five aspects of Service Design that need to be considered and that determine its scope. These include



Graphic

The aspects of Service Design display. Solutions for new or changed services are represented in a circle in the middle of the diagram. Measurement methods and metrics, Service Management information systems and tools, Technology and management architecture, and Required processes interact reciprocally with the Solutions for new or changed services.
solutions for new or changed servicesWhen a new service is designed or an existing service is changed, the aim should be to analyze, document, and agree upon each service requirement. The new service should be aligned with company strategy and IT policies.
Service Management information systems and toolsA new service should be consistent with other services – especially those with which the new service interfaces. Existing Service Management information systems and tools should be capable of supporting the new service.
technology and management architectureA new service should be designed so that it can function within existing technology and management architectures. Alternatively, these architectures may have to be revised.
required processes, andA new service should be designed so that it can be supported and maintained by business processes. Those responsible must also have the authority and skills to operate the new service.
measurement methods and metricsThe service measurement methods and metrics that are in place should be capable of producing the required performance information about the new service, or these systems and metrics must be revised.

Service Design requires that every time a new service solution is produced, it is checked against each one of the other Service Design aspects to ensure that it will integrate and interface with all of the services already in existence.

It is important that a results-driven approach be adopted for each of the Service Design aspects.

The desired business outcomes and planned results should be defined so that they meet customer expectations.



Question

What are the five aspects of Service Design?

Options:
1.Technology and management architectures
2.Required processes
3.Service Management information systems and tools
4.Service measurement methods and metrics
5.Solutions for new or changed services
6.Customers' requirements
7.Budget management

Answer

Option 1: Correct. A new service should integrate with existing technology and management architectures. Alternatively, the architectures may be revised.

Option 2: Correct. The required business processes to support a new service must be in place or must be developed.

Option 3: Correct. The new service should be supported by existing Service Management information systems and tools so that it can be successfully managed.

Option 4: Correct. Measurement methods and metrics for measuring the performance of a new service must be in place.

Option 5: Correct. Service Design involves identifying new service requirements and solutions for meeting these requirements. Each new service requirement should be analyzed, documented, and agreed upon before a solution is designed.

Option 6: Incorrect. Customers' requirements should inform each aspect of Service Design, which must be results driven to ensure that services meet customers' needs and expectations. However, these requirements aren't an actual aspect of Service Design.

Option 7: Incorrect. Financial and budget management is a process or activity that's separate from Service Design. However, it will affect Service Design decisions.

Correct answer(s):

1. Technology and management architectures
2. Required processes
3. Service Management information systems and tools
4. Service measurement methods and metrics
5. Solutions for new or changed services

2. Aligning with business needs

Before implementing or changing any of the five aspects of Service Design, it's important to ensure that they align with business needs.

Each new or changed IT service should be designed so that it integrates completely with the overall service and business strategy, and with the activities and processes that are internal and external to the business.

To ensure that Service Design aligns with business needs, many organizations set up a steering group – often referred to as the IT Strategy or Steering Group (ISG) – which facilitates cohesiveness between IT functionality and organizational plans and strategy.



Graphic

A diagram shows that the IT Steering Group (ISG) links to Corporate strategies and plans, and to IT strategies and plans. Corporate strategies and plans, and IT strategies and plans are linked to each other reciprocally.

The ISG reviews business and IT strategies, designs, plans, the Service Portfolio, IT architectures, and policies to ensure that IT functions and business needs are closely aligned.



Graphic

Corporate strategies and plans can be divided into three categories – Business strategies and plans, Functional strategies and plans, and Operational strategies and plans. Business strategies and plans and Functional strategies and plans are linked, and so are Functional strategies and plans and Operational strategies and plans.

The Service Portfolio supports the IT Steering Group (ISG).

The ISG discusses all aspects of the business that involve IT services, as well as proposed or possible changes, at a strategic level.

The issues the ISG addresses may include
business and IT plansThe ISG reviews IT and business plans to identify any changes in either area that might trigger the need to create, enhance, or improve IT services.
demand planningThe ISG uses demand planning to identify and plan for any changes in demand over the short and long term. This may influence both IT and overall business planning.
project authorization and prioritizationBoth business and IT management should be satisfied with the projects that are authorized and with the prioritization of projects.
projectsIT projects should be reviewed to ensure that their results contribute to the business and to verify that they are on schedule.
potential outsourcingThe need for and nature of potential outsourcing for the provision of IT projects should be identified, in relation to overall business needs.
business and IT strategyMajor changes to business and IT strategy should be discussed to ensure alignment between the two.
business and IT service continuity, andBusiness and IT service continuity strategies should be aligned.
IT policies and standardsIT policies and standards should be in place and should be aligned with the overall corporate vision and objectives.

Service Design should start with a new or changed set of business IT requirements and end with the development of a service solution designed to meet the needs of the business as a whole.



Graphic

A diagram shows that business IT requirements are translated into data information and knowledge. This is fed into a process that consists of multiple activities. 

The desired outcome is the service solution.

Service control and quality is fed into the activities to ensure that the desired outcome is achieved.

The service solution is the trigger for what happens during the process.



Question

What roles does the ISG play in ensuring that Service Design aligns with business needs?

Options:
1.Identifying potential business partners for outsourcing
2.Reviewing IT and business plans
3.Ensuring that IT management approves of the projects that are authorized for implementation
4.Reviewing IT policies and standards

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. The ISG needs to identify the need for and nature of potential outsourcing projects. However, it does this at a strategic level – it does not have to go as far as to identify outsourcing partners.

Option 2: Correct. The ISG reviews IT and business plans to identify any changes in either area that might trigger the need to create, enhance, or improve services.

Option 3: Incorrect. The ISG should ensure that both business and IT management approves the projects that are authorized and the projects' prioritization.

Option 4: Correct. The ISG reviews IT policies and standards to ensure that they align with the overall corporate vision and objectives.

Correct answer(s):

2. Reviewing IT and business plans
4. Reviewing IT policies and standards

3. Properly performing Service Design

In the case of a new or changed service, it is important to have properly performing design and planning processes if the desired outcome is a quality service.

Especially when time is tight, it is important to ensure that the Service Design stage is fully understood and that support is provided to maintain and mature Service Design as a fundamental element of the Service Lifecycle.

With proper Service Design, it is possible to deliver quality services and to ensure that business requirements are being met.

Good Service Design practice has the following benefits:
reduced riskGood Service Design practice reduces risk in the transition and operational stages of a service by ensuring that the service is well designed, aligns with both IT and business strategies, and meets customer requirements.
project prioritizationGood Service Design practice enables organizations to prioritize projects by establishing which projects, processes, and services will have the greatest impact on, or benefit to, the organization.
alignment of requirements, andGood Service Design practice ensures that the new IT services align with the overall business requirements. To do this, it is necessary to analyze business requirements periodically, review old IT services and infrastructure, and design the IT service solution to align to the business requirements.
improved quality, consistency, and scopeGood Service Design practice ensures enhanced service quality, consistency, and scope for continuous improvement within the constraints of corporate strategy and IT architectures.

In some cases, a new service fails due to poor planning and management.

For all services, it helps to take the "four P's" into account.
PeopleThe scope, tasks, activities, and skills of the people involved in the provision of IT services – managers and staff – are a critical factor in the success of these services. 
ProcessesThe processes and procedures used to manage IT services internally – to the organization – and externally – to its customers – help determine the success or failure of services. 
ProductsThe success or failure of services depends in part on the IT products – including the management support tools and the technology – used to manage the IT infrastructure and to deliver services and information to the right people, in the right place, at the right time. 
PartnersThe capabilities and business interests of partners – including suppliers, manufacturers, and vendors – help determine the likely success or failure of a service. 



Question

Why is properly performing Service Design important?

Options:
1.It enables organizations to prioritize projects
2.It ensures that service risks are aligned with overall business risks
3.It facilitates demand planning
4.It enhances the capabilities of suppliers
5.It reduces risk
6.It leads to improved quality, consistency, and scope for continual improvement

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Properly performing Service Design enables organizations to establish which projects, processes, and services will have the greatest impact on or benefit to the business.

Option 2: Correct. Properly performing Service Design helps align the risks associated with new services with overall business risks.

Option 3: Incorrect. Demand planning forms part of the process of aligning Service Design with business requirements. It is not a benefit of properly performing Service Design.

Option 4: Incorrect. Properly performing Service Design may serve the business interests of suppliers but it doesn't necessarily enhance their capabilities.

Option 5: Correct. Proper Service Design reduces the risks associated with services in the transition and operational stages by ensuring that the services are well designed, meet customer needs, and align with both IT and business strategies.

Option 6: Correct. Proper Service Design improves service quality and consistency, and increases the scope for continual improvement, within the framework of business strategy and IT architectures.

Correct answer(s):

1. It enables organizations to prioritize projects
2. It ensures that service risks are aligned with overall business risks
5. It reduces risk
6. It leads to improved quality, consistency, and scope for continual improvement

4. Summary

Service Design is a stage in which requirements for new or changed services or processes are identified and solutions that meet these requirements are defined. Aspects of Service Design include designing solutions for new or changed services, Service Management information systems and tools, technology and management architectures, required processes, and service measurement methods and metrics.

It is important that each aspect of Service Design aligns with overall business strategy. To help ensure this, many organizations set up an IT Strategy or Steering Group, which acts as a partnership between IT functions and business.

Benefits of properly performing Service Design include reduced risk, better alignment to the overall business requirements, better project prioritization and improved quality, consistency, and scope for continual improvement.

Back to top
 

Design Service Solutions and Service Portfolio
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•identify considerations when designing a service solution
•identify the options of status within the Service Portfolio
 
1. Service solution considerations

The Service Design stage of the Service Lifecycle involves a range of activities. It is essential to include these activities in a formal structure that considers all the different aspects of Service Design.



Graphic

The aspects of Service Design display. Solutions for new or changed services are represented in a circle in the middle of the diagram. Measurement methods and metrics, Service Management information systems and tools, Technology and management architecture, and Required processes interact reciprocally with the Solutions for new or changed services.



Supplement

Selecting the link title opens the resource in a new browser window.

Design Activities

Access information about the range of design activities included in Service Design.

Launch window

Everything that is done during the Service Design stage must align with the new or changed requirements of an organization. This way, it is possible to develop an IT service solution that meets the organization's business needs.

This service solution, together with the associated Service Design Package (SDP), is then passed to the Service Transition stage. At this stage the service solution and SDP are evaluated, built, tested, and then deployed or changed.

When designing service solutions, the following considerations should be included:
1. assessing existing business requirements 
2. developing alternative design solutions 
3. assessing the cost of design solutions 
4. identifying the preferred design solution, and 
5. assessing organizational readiness for implementing the preferred design solution 

Business requirements may be newly formed or may have changed over time. Assessing the existing business requirements is a vital first step to ensure that service solutions are focused to fulfilling these requirements.

After the assessment of existing business requirements, alternative design solutions for meeting these requirements should be produced.

This involves reviewing existing IT services. A new or changed service solution should be based on existing IT services and should exploit existing IT infrastructure wherever possible.

Once existing IT services have been reviewed, alternative design solutions for meeting new business requirements can be developed.

Each proposed alternative must be developed with the following factors in mind:
• the facilities and functionality required 
• the business processes supported 
• business cycles and seasonal variations 
• Service Level Requirements (SLR) and Service Level Targets 
• the timescales involved, and 
• the requirements for service testing 

When developing alternative design solutions, care should be taken to ensure that each proposed solution meets all of the organization's Service Acceptance Criteria (SAC).

Once alternative design solutions have been developed, each solution must be evaluated in terms of its potential advantages, disadvantages, and cost.

In turn, agreement must be reached on the budget and expenditure for the design solutions.

The business benefits of a proposed Service Design must be re-evaluated and confirmed, and its Return on Investment (ROI) determined.

The ROI should consider the identification and quantification of all service costs in relation to increased revenue and other business benefits.



Graphic

ROI calculates the rate of return from an investment by adjusting the cash inflows produced by investment for depreciation:

Net benefit divided by Total initial investment equals ROI

The cost-benefit ratio determines the return on a capital expenditure:
Total benefits divided by Total costs equals Cost-benefit ratio.

Service costs should cover the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) of the service – including start-up costs such as design costs, transition costs, project budgets, and all ongoing operational costs – including the costs of management, support and maintenance.



Question

Identify the Service Design considerations that relate to cost.

Options:
1.The need to evaluate each alternative design solution
2.The need to re-evaluate and confirm the ROI for each alternative design solution
3.The need to reach agreement on a budget
4.The need to review existing IT services
5.The need to identify business requirements

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Each proposed Service Design must be evaluated in terms of its advantages, disadvantages, and cost. This will help determine which design is the most viable.

Option 2: Correct. The ROI of a proposed Service Design must be evaluated and confirmed to determine whether the service is viable. ROI calculations must include TCO for the organization, as well as predicted revenue increases and other business benefits. 

Option 3: Correct. Evaluating each alternative Service Design should lead to agreement on the budget and expenditure for the new Service Design.

Option 4: Incorrect. Existing IT services should be reviewed before alternative Service Designs are developed, and therefore before their costs are determined.

Option 5: Incorrect. Business requirements should be identified before making cost considerations for alternative service solutions.

Correct answer(s):

1. The need to evaluate each alternative design solution
2. The need to re-evaluate and confirm the ROI for each alternative design solution
3. The need to reach agreement on a budget

Another consideration in Service Design involves identifying the preferred design solution and agreeing on its planned outcomes and targets – its SLR.

The Service Design that's chosen must be checked for alignment with existing corporate and IT strategies. It must also include all of the appropriate corporate and IT governance and security controls.

The next consideration in Service Design involves assessing organizational readiness for implementing the preferred Service Design solution.

Performing an organizational readiness assessment for an IT service involves assessing



Graphic

The risk/benefit assessment model shows the interrelationship between potential benefits and project risk to the organization. High project risk and potential benefits alert you to "cautiously examine." Low project risk and high potential benefits will give you the go-ahead to "identify and develop." High project risk and low potential benefits warn you to "avoid." Low project risk and potential benefits identify routine projects.
the commercial impact of the service on the organizationThe commercial impact of the new design solution on the organization needs to be considered from both a business and an IT perspective and should include all costs – one-off projects as well as ongoing operational costs.
associated risks and how they can be mitigatedThe risks associated with the new service need to be assessed in terms of the operation, security, availability, and continuity of the service.

For example, if IT staff has been assessed to have inadequate training to operate the new IT service, updated training should be designed and provided to mitigate the associated risk.
the capability and maturity of the business, andThe business needs to ensure that it has the capabilities – processes, structure, people, skills, and facilities – to operate the new service. It also has to ensure that there is a match between the scope of the new service and its own stage of growth, or maturity.

For example, an organization that finds itself at the beginning of its first growth stage would find it difficult to deliver and honor a very large and demanding service.
IT capability and maturityThe business needs to ensure that it has the required IT capabilities and maturity – in terms of infrastructure and skills – to deploy the new service.

More specifically, the IT capability and maturity of the organization should be assessed in terms of
the technology environmentThe impact of the new service on the existing technology environment – including IT infrastructure and services – should be assessed.

For example, does the shared network of the organization have the capacity to cope with the increased traffic and storage requirements of the new service?
IT organizational structureThe new service's impact on the IT organizational structure needs to be assessed.

For example, implementation of the new service may require the creation of a new organizational division to take responsibility for the new service.
An organogram shows the managing director who oversees IT Management and Corporate Management. The IT organizational structure consists of the IT management branch, which consists of a new service and existing services. HR and Admin fall under Corporate management. IT processesExisting IT processes and the way in which they are documented need to be assessed to ensure that existing processes can be applied to the new service.

For example, would the instructions for implementing the new service also include any system interfaces of the new IT service? Does existing documentation require updating as well?
staff capabilities, andStaff capabilities need to be assessed to determine whether IT resources have the necessary skills to operate the new service, and to identify training needs or the need to recruit more staff.
IT management processesIT management processes should be assessed to determine whether they will support the new service.

For example, can existing database management software be used to manage the new service?

As well as assessing internal factors, the readiness assessment should consider supplier and supporting agreements that are necessary to maintain and deliver the service.

Finally, a Service Design Package (SDP) should be assembled for the subsequent transition, operation, and improvement of the new or changed service solution.

An SDP is a set of documents that defines all aspects of an IT service and its requirements through each stage of its lifecycle.

The contents of an SDP are divided into these categories:
RequirementsThe SDP should contain a number of Requirements, including the initial agreed and documented business requirements, service applicability, and service contacts.
Service DesignOrganizational Readiness AssessmentThe SDP should contain an Organizational Readiness Assessment report and plan.
Service Lifecycle PlanThe SDP should contain a Service Lifecycle Plan, which consists of a service program that details specific information for each stage of the lifecycle.

For example, it lays out the service's risks, scope, objectives, and components, the required skills of the project team that develops the service, timescales, targets, and deliverables.
Service Transition PlanThe SDP should include a Service Transition Plan consisting of an overall transition strategy, objectives, policy, and risk assessment and plans.
Service Operational Acceptance Plan, andThe SDP should contain a Service Operational Acceptance Plan consisting of interface and dependency management and planning, all events, reports, and service issues regarding the new service, and a final service acceptance.
Service Acceptance CriteriaThe SDP should include the development and use of Service Acceptance Criteria for progression through each stage of the Service Lifecycle.



Question

Identify some of the factors you should consider when assessing whether your organization is ready to support a new service.

Options:
1.IT capability
2.The capability of the business
3.The current business cycle
4.The commercial impact on other providers of the same service

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Existing IT capability, including the IT organizational structure, processes, and staff capabilities, must be assessed to determine whether they'll support the new service.

Option 2: Correct. The business needs to ensure that it has the capabilities – processes, structure, people, and skills – to operate the new service.

Option 3: Incorrect. The maturity of the business – the stage at which it finds itself in the growth cycle – should be considered.

Option 4: Incorrect. The commercial impact on the organization itself needs to be considered.

Correct answer(s):

1. IT capability
2. The capability of the business

2. Functions of the Service Portfolio

The Service Portfolio is a management system that is used to support business processes. Developing a Service Portfolio is part of the second aspect of Service Design – developing Service Management systems and tools.

The Service Portfolio acts as a central repository, with information relating to every existing or proposed service and its current status within the organization.

It communicates the organization's service requirements and the ways in which the organization responds to these requirements.

The Service Portfolio describes an IT service provider's services in terms of business value. 

Because business value relates to market value, the Service Portfolio provides a means for comparing the service competitiveness of different service providers.



Graphic

A diagram shows that suppliers, teams – including support teams, infrastructure – including DBMS, networks, and the environment, and IT services influence the Service Portfolio.

A Service Portfolio should help to clarify the following strategic questions:
• Why should a customer buy these services? 
• Why should the customer buy these services from your organization? 
• What are the pricing or chargeback models for the services? 
• What are the service provider's strengths and weaknesses, priorities, and risks? 
• How should the organization's resources and capabilities be allocated? 

The Service Portfolio is the main source of information about business requirements and the services that address them. It must be carefully designed to meet the needs of all users.

This implies that the design of the Service Portfolio needs to be considered with the same care as the design of any other IT service.



Question

What are the functions of the Service Portfolio?

Options:
1.To support business management systems
2.To communicate service requirements
3.To document only services that have been implemented
4.To describe services in terms of their business value

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. The Service Portfolio is itself a management system that supports business processes.

Option 2: Correct. The Service Portfolio communicates information about the organization's service requirements.

Option 3: Incorrect. The Service Portfolio acts as a central repository for information relating to all of an organization's services – including existing and proposed services.

Option 4: Correct. The Service Portfolio describes an organization's services in terms of the value they can contribute to business.

Correct answer(s):

2. To communicate service requirements
4. To describe services in terms of their business value

3. Identifying status options

The Service Portfolio includes information about the current status of every service within the organization.



Graphic

The Service Portfolio contains the Service Pipeline, the Service Catalog, and retired services. The Service Catalog contains the customer/support team viewable section of the Service Portfolio (the Service Catalog, with selected fields viewable). The viewable fields for service status include Requirements, Defined, Analyzed, Approved, Chartered, Designed, Developed, Built, Test, Released, Operational, and Retired.

When you're formulating the set of requirements for a new service, the service may have one of five status options in the Service Portfolio.
RequirementsThe Requirements status indicates that an outline of the requirements of a new service have been identified. 
DefinedThe Defined status indicates that the requirements for the new service are being assessed, specified, and documented and that the SLRs for the service are being produced. 
AnalyzedThe Analyzed status option indicates that the requirements for the new service are still being evaluated and prioritized. 
ApprovedThe Approved status option indicates that the set of requirements for the new service have been finalized and authorized. 
CharteredThe Chartered status option indicates that the set of requirements for the new service is being communicated and that resources and budgets are being allocated. 

Once resources and budgets have been allocated to the new service, design work can commence.

There are seven status options for a new service once the design phase commences.
DesignedThe Designed status option indicates that the new service and its components are being designed. 
DevelopedThe Developed status option indicates that the new service and its components are being developed. 
BuiltThe Built status option indicates that the new service and its components have been constructed. 
TestThe Test status option indicates that the new service and its components are being evaluated. 
ReleasedThe Released status option indicates that the new service and its components are being delivered into the live environment. 
OperationalThe Operational status option indicates that the new service and its components have been implemented and are functional within the live environment. 
RetiredThe Retired status option indicates that the service and its components are no longer operational. 

A new service may be allocated a particular overall status. However, each constituent component of the service may be allocated a different status option.

Question Set



The Service Portfolio assists you in identifying the status of a service.

Question 1 of 2



Question

Match each status option associated with formulating the requirements for a service with its explanation.

Options:
A.Approved
B.Analyzed
C.Defined

Targets:
1.The set of requirements for the new service has been finalized
2.The set of requirements for the new service are being prioritized
3.The SLRs for the new service are being produced

Answer

The Approved status indicates that the requirements for the new service have been finalized and approved.

The Analyzed status indicates that the requirements for the new service are still being evaluated and prioritized.

The Defined status indicates that requirements for the new service are being assessed, specified, and documented to produce its SLR. 

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Question 2 of 2



Question

Match the status options for services on which design has begun with their explanations.

Options:
A.Test
B.Operational
C.Developed
D.Released

Targets:
1.The new service and its components are being evaluated
2.The new service and its components have been implemented
3.The new service and its components have been produced
4.The new service and its components are being delivered

Answer

The Test status indicates that a new service and its components are being evaluated.

The Operational status indicates that the new service and its components have been implemented and are functional within the live environment.

The Developed status indicates that a new service and its components have been produced and developed and so can be built.

The Released status indicates that the new service and its components are being delivered into the live environment.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

4. Summary

The Service Design stage of the Service Lifecycle should be formally structured and should take into account new and existing business requirements, alternative design solutions, cost, and organizational readiness.

The Service Portfolio is a management system that is used to support business processes. It communicates information about service requirements and the way in which the organization responds to these.

The Service Portfolio contains information about the current status of every service within an organization.

Back to top
 

Design Technology and Management Architectures
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•match roles in the enterprise architecture with their functions
•recognize the areas to consider when designing a management architecture that integrates IT needs with business needs
 
1. Features of architectural design

The design of technology and management architectures is the third aspect of Service Design.



Graphic

The aspects of Service Design display. Solutions for new or changed services are represented in a circle in the middle of the diagram. Measurement methods and metrics, Service Management information systems and tools, Technology and management architecture, and Required processes interact reciprocally with the Solutions for new or changed services.

Architectural design can be defined as the development and maintenance of IT policies, strategies, architectures, designs, documents, plans, and processes. Architectural design is used for the deployment and subsequent operation and improvement of appropriate IT services and solutions throughout an organization.

Architectural design needs to ensure that the IT infrastructures, environments, data, applications, and external services serve the needs of the business, its products, and services.



Graphic

IT designers and planners on the one side, and Business designers and planners on the other side provide input to Architectural design.

This means that architectural design should include both the design of the technology components and the design of the systems that are used to manage them.



Graphic

IT designers and planners use Technology components, and Business designers and planners use Management systems to provide the input to Architectural design.

When designing an architecture, it is important to obtain a balance between
innovationDynamic, continuous innovation that builds on existing architecture is less risky and costly than designing an entirely new architecture.
The Innovation - Risk - Cost graph consists of an X-axis labeled Innovation and a Y-axis labeled Risk. The graph is a parabola. There are only positive values for both axes.  risk, andAlthough the design of an entirely new architecture holds considerable risk as it might fail, it is even riskier not to innovate at all. Not working on innovative services can be costly to an organization in the long term when its competitors overtake it. A risk - benefit assessment should therefore be conducted.
The Innovation - Risk - Cost graph consists of an X-axis labeled Innovation and a Y-axis labeled Risk. The graph is a parabola. There are only positive values for both axes. The mid-section of the parabola is highlighted. Its values are continuous, dynamic innovation, and low risk. costThe cost of designing an architecture should be determined in relation to the anticipated benefits from the innovation by obtaining the cost-benefit ratio.
The Innovation - Risk - Cost graph consists of an X-axis labeled Innovation and a Y-axis labeled Risk. The graph is a parabola. There are only positive values for both axes. The mid-section and both sides of the parabola are highlighted. The value can either be low innovation and high risk, or high innovation and high risk.

The formula that calculates the cost of designing an architecture is as follows:

Total benefits divided by Total cost equals cost-benefit ratio. 
The inputs for architectural design comes from the business, the Service Strategy, architectural design plans, designers, and planners.

The outputs include IT designs, plans, architectures, and policies.

The designs, plans, architectures, and policies that result from architecture design should cover these aspects of IT:
• roles and responsibilities 
• services 
• technology 
• architecture and frameworks 
• processes and procedures 
• partners and suppliers, and 
• management methods 

More specifically, IT technology refers to the IT infrastructure, the environment, the applications, and data.

Architectural design can be effective and economical only if it is closely coordinated and synchronized with business processes and activities.



Question

Select the statements that describe features of technology and management architecture design.

Options:
1.Architecture design includes designing the systems required to manage the architecture
2.Architecture design refers only to the design of the technology components of an architecture
3.Architecture design should aim to maximize innovation in order to minimize risk
4.Architecture design can be effective only if it is synchronized with business processes

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Architecture design involves the design of technology components and of the systems required to manage them.

Option 2: Incorrect. Architecture design involves the design of the systems required to manage technical components, as well as the design of the components themselves.

Option 3: Incorrect. Architecture design should aim to obtain a balance between innovation, cost, and risk. Too high a level of innovation – as in the development of a completely new architecture – will actually increase risk.

Option 4: Correct. Architecture design must be aligned with business processes and activities for it to be effective and economical.

Correct answer(s):

1. Architecture design includes designing the systems required to manage the architecture
4. Architecture design can be effective only if it is synchronized with business processes

2. Enterprise architecture components

Enterprise architecture is defined as the process of translating business vision and strategy into effective enterprise change by creating, communicating, and improving key principles and models that describe the future state of the enterprise and enable its evolution.



Graphic

A diagram illustrates the strategy that Using enterprise architecture facilitates. Present vision flows into Creating, then into Communicating, then into Improving models, and finally into Future vision.

The enterprise architecture forms an integrated part of the business architecture. Its components are concerned with both the business of the organization and the information systems that support the business.

As an integrated part of the business architecture, the enterprise architecture includes five major areas.
Service architectureService architecture describes how applications, infrastructure, and organization and support activities can be converted into a set of services. It provides an independent, business-integrated model for distinguishing between the service architecture, the application architecture, the data architecture, and the infrastructure architecture.

Application architectureApplication architecture forms the basis on which individual applications are developed and deployed, business and functional requirements mapped to applications, and it shows the interrelationships between applications.

Information and data architectureInformation and data architecture forms the basis of the logical and physical data assets of the enterprise and its data management resources. It describes the management of the information resources and how they are shared for the benefit of the enterprise and includes data warehousing technologies.

IT infrastructure architectureIT infrastructure architecture describes the structure, functionality, and geographical distribution of the hardware, software, and communications components – as well as the applicable technical standards – on which the overall architecture is based.

Environmental architectureEnvironmental architecture describes all aspects, types, and levels of environmental controls and their management.


The five architectural areas and the way in which they interface assist IT service providers in determining the strategic direction of the organization.



Graphic

The five architectural areas are interrelated. The IT infrastructure architecture consists of Product architecture and Management architecture. It relates closely to Environmental architecture, and uses Application architecture. Application architecture also uses IT infrastructure architecture. Application architecture is influenced by information and data architecture, and vice versa. Application architecture is supported by Service architecture, which, in turn is linked to the Service Portfolio, and is also supported by Application architecture. Service architecture and Business and organization architecture reciprocate delivery, feedback, and monitoring systems.



Question

Match each area of enterprise architecture with its purpose.

Options:
A.Information and data architecture
B.Environmental architecture
C.Service architecture
D.IT infrastructure architecture

Targets:
1.Describes enterprise data assets
2.Describes all environment controls
3.Translates infrastructure and activities into a set of services
4.Forms the structure, functionality, and geographical distribution of IT components

Answer

Information and data architecture describes the logical and physical data assets of the enterprise and its data management resources.

Environmental architecture describes all aspects, types, and levels of environment controls and their management.

Service architecture translates applications, infrastructure, and organization and support activities into a set of services.

IT infrastructure architecture describes the structure, functionality, and geographical distribution of hardware, software, and communications components.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

3. Enterprise architecture roles

Organizations rely on key individuals to maintain architectural relationships and to drive the process forward. 

The architectural roles ensure that Service Design derives maximum benefit from the enterprise architecture and the work that went into creating this architecture.

Enterprise architecture roles will differ in different organizations and may be combined or separated. However, most organizations will have these three roles:
business and organizational architectThe business and organizational architect is concerned with business models, business processes, and organizational design – the structural and functional components of the organization and how these relate to each other.
service architect, andThe service architect is concerned with the architectures that support the business – the service, data, and application architectures – and the relationships and interfaces between them.
IT infrastructure architectThe IT infrastructure architect is concerned with the physical technology model and the infrastructure components that are required to support it. This includes the selection of the technologies, interfaces, protocols, and products required to implement the infrastructure.

The business and organizational architect's role may reside within the business strategy and planning function.

The service architect's role may form part of an internal function with responsibility for handling service-related relationships between the business and external suppliers and IT partners.

The service architect role may be situated within an IT function.

The service architect role may also be situated within the business side of the organization.

The service provider or partner who is responsible for producing the IT infrastructure architecture used for the delivery of IT services to the organization may fulfill the role of infrastructure architect.



Question

Match each architectural role with its function.

Options:
A.IT infrastructure architect
B.Business and organizational architect
C.Service architect

Targets:
1.The development of physical technology model and infrastructure
2.The development of the structural and functional components of the organization
3.The development of all the architectures that support the business

Answer

The IT infrastructure architect is concerned with the physical technology model and the infrastructure components that are required to support it.

The business and organizational architect is concerned with business models, business processes, and organizational design. These comprise the structural and functional components of the organization.

The service architect is concerned with the architectures that support the business – the service, data, and application architectures – and the relationships between them.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

4. Technology and management architectures

IT management needs to work in partnership with the business to build management solutions.

The key to the development of a technology and management architecture is to ensure that it is driven by business needs, rather than by IT needs in isolation.

To ensure that IT needs are integrated with business needs, organizations need to design IT solutions that reduce overall network management and support costs, while maintaining or even improving the quality of a service.

Organizations need to determine the roles of processes and people, and then implement the tools to automate the processes or facilitate people's roles and tasks.

If organizations base their technology and management architecture on these principles, it's more likely that the architectures will integrate IT needs with business needs.

It is useful to use a model to ensure that IT needs are aligned with business needs. The model includes five main areas that need to be considered.
Business requirementsBusiness requirements include the needs, requirements, processes, objectives, and goals of the business units and managers within the organization.

People, roles, and activitiesConsidering people, roles, and activities involves considering the scope, tasks, and activities of the managers and staff involved in managing the provision of IT services.

Processes and proceduresThe processes and procedures used to manage the IT services that are provided to the business and its customers must align with business needs.

Management toolsThe management tools and support tools required to manage the IT infrastructure must align with business needs.

TechnologyThe IT products and technology that are used to deliver services and information to the right people, in the right place at the right time, must align with business needs.


The model enables an organization to follow a top-down approach when designing its technology and management architectures.

A top-down approach ensures that Service Management and Technology Management processes, tools, and information are aligned with the needs and goals of the business.

The model also enables an organization to follow a bottom-up approach when implementing the technology infrastructure.

A bottom-up approach ensures that efficient and effective Service Management and Technology Management processes are fully integrated with the tools and technology in use within the organization.

The model should be used to ensure greater exploitation of tools in the management and support of technology and end-to-end processes.

A Management Architecture is required that can be applied to all areas of IT management, rather than just within isolated areas.

When management architecture is aligned with the business requirements of the organization and its managers, it can be used to design and implement effective, efficient, and integrated management solutions.



Question

What are some of the areas you should consider when designing a technology and management architecture that integrates IT needs with business needs?

Options:
1.The management tools required to manage the IT infrastructure
2.The technology required to support the business requirements 
3.Business needs that arise as a consequence of implementing a particular technology
4.The processes and procedures required to manage IT services
5.The reason why a customer would want to buy into the new IT service

Answer

Option 1: Correct. You should consider the management and support tools required to manage the IT infrastructure effectively.

Option 2: Correct. You should consider the IT products and technology that are required to deliver IT services and information to the right people, in the right place at the right time.

Option 3: Incorrect. The needs, requirements, processes, objectives, and goals of the business units and managers within the organization determine the technology that is required. Management Architecture should not be technology-driven.

Option 4: Correct. You should consider the processes and procedures needed to manage the IT services that are provided to the business and its customers.

Option 5: Incorrect. You need to consider the reason for a customer's buy-in when designing a service solution, which is the first aspect of Service Design. This doesn't relate to designing technology architecture management.

Correct answer(s):

1. The management tools required to manage the IT infrastructure
2. The technology required to support the business requirements 
4. The processes and procedures required to manage IT services

5. Integrating Technology Management

To ensure that IT needs are aligned with the needs of the business, a strategic approach should be followed when planning the information technology for the design of the management architecture.

This calls for the creation of an architecture that provides a framework within which the technology will be managed over the long term.

The technology management framework forms an integral part of the IT infrastructure architecture and is one of the major areas of the enterprise architecture as a whole.

The benefits of using management architecture to integrate IT needs with business needs are that management systems become
• more focused on business needs 
• more closely aligned to business processes 
• less dependent on specific technology and more "service-centric" 
• more integrated with other management tools and processes as management standards evolve 
• incorporated in end-to-end management systems and processes 
• more focused on providing quality customer services, and 
• more flexible 



Question

What are some of the benefits of a management architecture that integrates IT needs with business needs for management systems?

Options:
1.They become more dependent on specific technology
2.They become more focused on business needs
3.They are more closely aligned with business processes
4.They are incorporated in top-down management processes and systems

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. Management systems become less dependent on a specific technology and more service-focused when business and IT needs are aligned.

Option 2: Correct. Management systems become more focused on business needs when business and IT needs are aligned.

Option 3: Correct. A result of aligning business and IT needs is that management systems become more closely aligned to business processes.

Option 4: Incorrect. Management architecture that integrates IT needs with business needs for management systems are incorporated in end-to-end management processes and systems, not top-down management processes and systems.

Correct answer(s):

2. They become more focused on business needs
3. They are more closely aligned with business processes

6. Summary

The third aspect of Service Design is the design of technology and management architectures. Architecture design ensures that the IT infrastructure, environment, data, applications, and external services serve the needs of the business, its products, and services.

Enterprise architecture is part of the overall business architecture. Its components include service architecture, application architecture, information and data architecture, IT infrastructure architecture, and environmental architecture.

Architectural roles ensure that Service Design derives maximum benefit from the enterprise architecture. The roles include business and organizational, service, and IT infrastructure architects.

The development of a management architecture should be driven by business needs. Using a model in which a top-down approach is followed helps ensure that business and IT needs are aligned.

A technology management framework is an integrated part of the IT infrastructure architecture. A strategic approach needs to be followed to ensure that IT needs are aligned with business needs.

Back to top
 

Design Required Processes
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•identify the features of process design
 
1. Features of Process Design



Question

What are the features of process design?

Options:
1.A process aims to fulfill an objective
2.Data is the input of a process
3.Norms are used to compare the inputs of a process with the outputs
4.Processes are designed to meet one organization's needs

Answer

Option 1: Correct. A process is a set of activities that work toward fulfilling an objective. As such, a process turns inputs into outputs with the help of roles, responsibilities, tools, and management controls. 

Option 2: Correct. A process converts data – its input – into an output. The output is reviewed and measured, and then reformulated into an input. The loop continues until the output of the process is satisfactory.

Option 3: Incorrect. Norms define the conditions that a process should meet. They are used to compare the actual outputs of a process with the outputs that the process is expected to produce.

Option 4: Incorrect. Process design is only practical if the process can be shared among organizations or within all departments of an organization. It would not make sense to design processes that are applicable only to specific environments.

Correct answer(s):

1. A process aims to fulfill an objective
2. Data is the input of a process



Question

Which of these aspects need to be included in the design of a process?

Options:
1.Financial resources
2.Data
3.Procedures
4.Control structures
5.Technology architectures
6.Service Portfolio

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Financial resources are one example of process enablers. They provide the financial backing a process design needs.

Option 2: Correct. Data is the input that a process needs. The process converts the input into outputs, which are then measured to establish if the process is well designed.

Option 3: Correct. Process procedures enable the process to function in a standardized way that is consistent with existing processes. They provide credibility to the process design.

Option 4: Correct. The process owner needs to control the process in order to deliver a process design that is effective and efficient.

Option 5: Incorrect. Technology architectures are aspects of Service Design – they are not aspects of design processes.

Option 6: Incorrect. The Service Portfolio is a management system that is used to support business processes. It is the second aspect of Service Design, rather than an aspect of design processes in particular.

Correct answer(s):

1. Financial resources
2. Data
3. Procedures
4. Control structures

Back to top
 

Design Measurement Methods and Metrics
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize scenarios that illustrate metric tree benefits
 
1. Measurement methods and metrics

The fifth aspect of Service Design is the design of measurement methods and metrics.



Graphic

The aspects of Service Design display. Solutions for new or changed services are represented in a circle in the middle of the diagram. Measurement methods and metrics, Service Management information systems and tools, Technology and management architecture, and Required processes interact reciprocally with the Solutions for new or changed services.

Measurement methods and metrics are important for managing and controlling processes. The individual components of a process can be managed and improved upon only if they can be measured.

Measurement methods and metrics and the methods used to produce them should be carefully selected, because they can change the behavior of people working within the activities and processes.

For example, an IT help desk with performance measurements focusing on taking as many calls as possible may actually encourage people to compromise quality in their efforts to perform better.

It's therefore important to select measurements and metrics that encourage people to meet all the objectives of a process.

To be effective, measurement methods and metrics need to meet several requirements. They need to measure whether the design solution
is "fit for purpose"Measurement methods and metrics should measure whether the design solution accomplishes what is set out in its objectives to establish its fitness for purpose.
has an appropriate level of qualityMeasurement methods and metrics should measure whether the level of quality specified in the process objectives is achieved – the design solution should neither be overengineered nor underengineered.
works "right first time"Measurement methods and metrics should measure whether the design solution works right first time and whether it meets its expected targets.
minimizes the need for adjustments, andMeasurement methods and metrics should measure whether a design solution is capable of minimizing the need for adjustments or add-ons that have to be rapidly developed after the solution has been deployed.
is effective and efficientMeasurement methods and metrics should measure whether the design solution is effective and efficient from the perspective of the business and its customers.

It is essential that measurement methods and metrics are able to determine whether a design solution is efficient within the constraints of being effective.

A design solution should therefore aim to minimize the use of resources and time, while maintaining the specified level of quality.



Question

What are some of the requirements that measurement methods and metrics must meet?

Options:
1.They need to be able to measure whether a design solution has the appropriate level of quality
2.They need to be able to measure how a design solution will influence the performance of the people responsible
3.They need to be able to determine the work hours needed to adjust a design solution
4.They need to be able to measure whether a design solution works the first time

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Measurement methods and metrics need to be able to measure whether a design solution achieves the level of quality that is specified in its objectives.

Option 2: Incorrect. Measurement methods and metrics are used to measure the performance of a design solution, rather than the behavior of the people responsible.

Option 3: Incorrect. Measurement methods and metrics should measure whether a design solution is capable of minimizing the need for adjustments. However, they don't determine the actual amount of reworking required.

Option 4: Correct. The measurement methods and metrics should measure whether the design solution works the first time and whether it meets its expected targets.

Correct answer(s):

1. They need to be able to measure whether a design solution has the appropriate level of quality
4. They need to be able to measure whether a design solution works the first time

2. Types of metrics

The type of metrics that are used to obtain measurements need to match the capability and maturity of the processes being measured.

There are four types of metrics that can be used to measure the capability and performance of processes:
progressProgress metrics measure the capability of a process to reach milestones and to produce deliverables on time.
complianceCompliance metrics measure the compliance of a process to governance requirements and regulatory requirements. They also measure whether people comply with the way in which the process is meant to be used.
effectiveness, andEffectiveness metrics measure the accuracy and correctness of a process in terms of its objective – the ability of the process to deliver the right result.
efficiencyEfficiency metrics measure the productivity of the process, and its speed, throughput, and resource utilization.

Measurement methods and metrics should develop and change as the maturity and capability of a process develops.

With immature processes, the first two levels of metrics – progress and compliance – should mostly be used. This is because immature processes are not yet capable of supporting sophisticated measurement methods and metrics.

For mature processes, there should be greater emphasis on the effectiveness and efficiency metrics, although not to the detriment of the progress or compliance of the process.

The selection of the metrics to focus on, the points at which the measurements are made, and the methods used to measure, calculate, and report the metrics must be carefully designed and planned.

You should first focus on determining the effectiveness and the quality of a process. So effectiveness metrics are the primary metrics.

Once the effectiveness and quality of a process have been optimized, you should focus on measuring the efficiency of the process using efficiency metrics – the secondary metrics.



Question

Match each type of metric with its description.

Options:
A.Effectiveness
B.Compliance
C.Efficiency
D.Progress

Targets:
1.Measures the ability of a process to deliver the right result
2.Measures the extent to which a process adheres to regulatory requirements
3.Measures the productivity of a process
4.Measures the capability of a process to produce deliverables on time

Answer

Effectiveness metrics measure the accuracy and correctness of the process in terms of its objective – the ability of the process to deliver the right result.

Compliance metrics measure the compliance of a process to governance and regulatory requirements, as well as the compliance of people with the way in which the process is meant to be used.

Efficiency metrics measure the productivity of a process and its speed, throughput, and resource utilization.

Progress metrics measure the capability of a process to reach milestones and to produce deliverables on time.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

3. Using a metrics tree

Organizations should attempt to develop automated measurement methods based on a form of metrics tree.

A metrics tree is based on a typical balanced scorecard.



Graphic

A diagram shows business objectives and metrics linked to IT objectives and metrics. In turn, IT objectives and metrics link to the individual process metrics – including the metrics of individual process components – and the overall service and customer metrics – including the metrics of individual services.



Note

The balanced scorecard is a management and measurement system that enables an organization to clarify its vision and strategy and to translate these into action.

The metrics tree first links IT objectives and metrics with business objectives and metrics. In both cases, these objectives and metrics relate to the customer, business, innovation, and financial perspectives.

The metrics tree links the metrics for measuring individual internal business processes and individual process components with the business and IT objectives and metrics.

Individual business process metrics include those that measure progress, compliance, effectiveness, and efficiency. Individual process component metrics include those that measure availability, performance, capacity, failures, and change.

Finally, the metrics tree links overall and individual services – and their respective customer metrics, the processes external to the organization – to the business and IT objectives and metrics.

Overall and individual services and customer metrics include those for measuring service quality, customer feedback or surveys, customer complaints, and service functionality.

The metrics tree – or balanced scorecard – provides feedback on internal business processes and external outcomes with the aim of continually improving strategic performance and results.

The use of a metrics tree has these benefits for an organization:
measurements align with business objectivesThe metrics tree helps management look at the organization from a business perspective, the customers' perspective, an innovation perspective, and a financial perspective. This helps to align the measurements with business objectives.
trends can be discovered over timeThe metrics tree helps management to get a top-level business overview – or "dashboard" – of all processes and to discover trends over time. This enables them to identify potential performance degradation and correct it at an early stage.

For example, management may assess customer complaint metrics over time to identify performance weaknesses.
business processes are properly measuredThe metrics tree ensures that all business processes are properly measured. Both internal and external processes to the organization are taken into account when measurements are made.

For example, it ensures that individual processes – such as the provision of payroll IT services to all divisions – are measured in terms of progress, compliance, effectiveness, and efficiency.
measurement gaps are preventedThe metrics tree ensures that the relationships between processes, as well as the processes themselves, are measured. This prevents gaps in performance measurement.

For example, it may be very difficult to measure the quality of a particular service directly. However, other metrics such as customer satisfaction may be used to provide indirect information about the perceived quality of the service.
measurement, presentation, and calculation methods are consistentThe metrics tree ensures that all process owners and managers use consistent measurement, presentation, and calculation methods.

For example, the methods used to measure the performance of a technical support service need to be aligned with the methods used to obtain customer feedback about the service.
complete and accurate information is available, andBy ensuring that all measurements are taken consistently and that all processes and relationships between them are measured, the metrics tree provides complete and accurate information which top management uses to make strategic decisions.

For example, customer satisfaction, financial, and innovation metrics might lead management to decide to expand a particular service offering.
picture of service performance is informativeBecause the metrics tree provides a picture of service performance that starts with individual service components and ends with a top-level overview of service performance, people in an organization can obtain performance information that's relevant at the organizational levels they occupy.

For example, technical specialists can discover the performance of an individual service component such as the availability of a service, while senior IT managers can focus on the service as a whole.

Question Set



Understanding the advantages of using a metrics tree when designing measurement methods and metrics takes practice. Try and recognize the examples in which the benefits of using a metrics tree are obvious.

Question 1 of 2



Question

You want to decide whether or not to modify a particular process component.

Choose the scenario that best illustrates when you would benefit from using a metric tree.

Options:
1.A component is modified after customer feedback over a period of time is reviewed
2.A component is modified after innovation metrics have been calculated and found to be favorable
3.A component is modified after customer complaint metrics have been reviewed at the beginning of the year
4.A process component is modified after a review of customer complaint and financial metrics, and business objectives over time

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. Although obtaining metrics over a period of time provides a more complete picture than static measurement, reviewing only customer feedback metrics provides an isolated view of performance. A metrics tree provides a complete picture.

Option 2: Incorrect. The metrics tree is of no benefit in this case because service component metrics and customer feedback metrics are not considered.

Option 3: Incorrect. The metrics tree is of no benefit in this case because the metrics of a single service component are used in isolation.

Option 4: Correct. The complete information provided by a metrics tree enables management to make informed decisions and to take corrective action in line with business objectives.

Correct answer(s):

4. A process component is modified after a review of customer complaint and financial metrics, and business objectives over time

Question 2 of 2



Question

Identify the example that illustrates the benefits of using a metrics tree – rather than individual metrics – when deciding whether or not to modify an existing service.

Options:
1.Top management decides to expand the service after calculating innovation metrics for the expansion
2.A service manager decides to cancel one of the components of the service due to its poor performance metrics over a period of time
3.A senior IT manager decides to expand the service after reviewing its process metrics, customer metrics, and alignment with IT and business objectives
4.Management decides to expand the service after receiving encouraging financial metrics for the service

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. The metrics tree is of no benefit in this case because no metrics, apart from the innovation metrics, are considered.

Option 2: Incorrect. The manager doesn't benefit from a metrics tree because he doesn't take into account customer metrics and the impact of the failure of the service component on overall service levels.

Option 3: Correct. In this example, the metrics tree is used to integrate all the metrics relevant to the manager's decision.

Option 4: Incorrect. The metrics tree is used to obtain a complete set of metrics. In this example, financial metrics are used in isolation.

Correct answer(s):

3. A senior IT manager decides to expand the service after reviewing its process metrics, customer metrics, and alignment with IT and business objectives

4. Summary

The design of measurement methods and metrics is the fifth aspect of Service Design. Measurement methods and metrics should be carefully selected and need to meet specific requirements in order to be effective.

There are four types of metrics that can be used to measure the capability and performance of processes – progress, compliance, effectiveness, and efficiency metrics. The maturity of a process determines which of these metrics must be emphasized.

It is useful to develop a metrics tree – based on the balanced scorecard – as the basis for integrating all metrics for an organization's processes.

Back to top
 

Understanding Service Design Aspects
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•demonstrate knowledge of the five aspects of Service Design
 
1. Exercise Overview

In this exercise, you're required to demonstrate knowledge of each of the aspects of Service Design.

This involves the following tasks:
•understanding Service Design
•designing service solutions
•designing the Service Portfolio
•designing technology and management architectures
•designing required processes, and
•designing measurement methods and metrics

You work for an IT organization that is currently seeking to implement new IT services and to make changes to certain existing IT services. To ensure effective results, you need to recognize guidelines associated with each aspect of Service Design.

2. Understanding Service Design

The five aspects of Service Design form the basis for the design of a new or changed service.

You need to be able to identify these five aspects and establish the role of the IT Steering Group (ISG).



Question

What are the five aspects of Service Design?

Options:
1.Designing required processes
2.Designing measurement methods and metrics
3.Analyzing and documenting customer preferences for the service
4.Designing the solutions for new or changed services
5.Designing Service Management information systems and tools
6.Defining the roles responsible for managing the service
7.Designing technology and management architectures

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Designing the processes required to operate a service is one of the aspects of Service Design.

Option 2: Correct. Designing the measurement methods and metrics for measuring the performance of the service is one of the aspects of Service Design.

Option 3: Incorrect. Analyzing and documenting customer preferences is not one of the five aspects of Service Design, although an objective of Service Design is to ensure that services meet customers' needs.

Option 4: Correct. Designing the solutions for a new or changed service by analyzing and documenting the service's requirements is one of the aspects of Service Design.

Option 5: Correct. Designing the information systems and tools required for managing the service is one of the aspects of Service Design.

Option 6: Incorrect. Defining roles is not one of the five main aspects of Service Design. However, it is an important task in enterprise architecture design and in process design.

Option 7: Correct. Designing the technology and management architectures needed to manage the service is one of the aspects of Service Design.

Correct answer(s):

1. Designing required processes
2. Designing measurement methods and metrics
4. Designing the solutions for new or changed services
5. Designing Service Management information systems and tools
7. Designing technology and management architectures



Question

What is the role of the ISG in Service Design?

Options:
1.Reviewing IT policies and standards
2.Identifying potential business partners
3.Reviewing IT and business strategy
4.Continually improving Service Design management tools
5.Designing the enterprise architecture

Answer

Option 1: Correct. One of the roles of the ISG is to review IT policies and standards to ensure that they are aligned with business strategy.

Option 2: Incorrect. Although the ISG can identify projects that may be suitable for outsourcing, it does not need to identify outsourcing partners.

Option 3: Correct. One of the roles of the ISG is to review IT and business strategy and to ensure that they are aligned.

Option 4: Incorrect. The ISG ensures that business and IT continuity strategies remain aligned.

Option 5: Incorrect. The ISG operates on a strategic level only. It reviews strategies, designs, policies, and plans to ensure they are aligned with each other and that IT and business strategy remain aligned.

Correct answer(s):

1. Reviewing IT policies and standards
3. Reviewing IT and business strategy

3. Designing service solutions

One of the aspects of Service Design involves defining the requirements of a new or changed service.

To define service requirements effectively, you need to be aware of the factors you need to consider when designing a new service solution.



Question

What factors do you need to consider when designing a new service solution?

Options:
1.The capability and maturity of the existing IT infrastructure
2.The status of existing services in the organization
3.The cost of designing completely new IT infrastructure management processes
4.Corporate and IT strategy
5.The extent to which the organization is expected to benefit financially

Answer

Option 1: Correct. You need to determine whether the existing IT infrastructure is capable of supporting the new or changed service.

Option 2: Incorrect. You need to consider the nature of existing services to ensure that the new or changed service will build on existing services and infrastructure, but you don't have to consider the status of existing services.

Option 3: Incorrect. You need to consider existing IT infrastructure management processes to determine whether they are capable of supporting the new service, rather than focusing on designing completely new processes.

Option 4: Correct. You need to ensure that the new service is aligned with both IT and corporate strategy.

Option 5: Correct. You need to consider the financial impact of the new service, including its calculated Return on Investment (ROI), on the business. 

Correct answer(s):

1. The capability and maturity of the existing IT infrastructure
4. Corporate and IT strategy
5. The extent to which the organization is expected to benefit financially



Question

What other factors do you need to consider when designing the new service solution?

Options:
1.Developing the Service Portfolio
2.The risks associated with the new service
3.The cost of alternative design solutions
4.The competitiveness of other providers of the service
5.The capability and maturity of the organization

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. Although the new service solution will be included in the Service Portfolio, you do not have to consider the Service Portfolio as a whole at this stage.

Option 2: Correct. You need to determine the business risks – for example the financial risks – of implementing the service solution.

Option 3: Correct. You need to calculate and compare the costs of alternative design solutions to ensure that the design solution you choose is the best one.

Option 4: Incorrect. The competitiveness of other service providers is not a key consideration in the design of a new service solution, which must focus on meeting customer needs within the constraints of business and IT strategies.

Option 5: Correct. If your organization is more mature, it is capable of providing a more complex service.

Correct answer(s):

2. The risks associated with the new service
3. The cost of alternative design solutions
5. The capability and maturity of the organization

4. Designing the Service Portfolio

Another aspect of Service Design involves the design of the management information systems and tools required to manage the new or changed service. This includes the design of a Service Portfolio.



Question

The Service Portfolio is a critical management system.

What are its main functions?

Options:
1.To communicate service performance metrics for services that have been implemented
2.To communicate service requirements
3.To describe all of your organization's services in terms of their business value
4.To describe all of your organization's services in terms of customer perceptions of their value

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. The Service Portfolio contains information about all services – including proposed and implemented services – within an organization. However, it doesn't contain performance metrics for these services.

Option 2: Correct. The Service Portfolio contains information about the service requirements of your organization and enables communication of these requirements.

Option 3: Correct. The Service Portfolio contains information about the value – for example financial or market penetration value – each service is capable of contributing to the business.

Option 4: Incorrect. Some of the information in the Service Portfolio is available to customers. However, the Service Portfolio does not contain information about customers' perceived value of services.

Correct answer(s):

2. To communicate service requirements
3. To describe all of your organization's services in terms of their business value



Question

When the requirements for a new service are being developed, the service may have one of five status options in the Service Portfolio.

Match each status option to its meaning.

Options:
A.Defined
B.Chartered
C.Analyzed
D.Requirements
E.Approved

Targets:
1.The requirements for the new service are being assessed, specified, and documented
2.The set of requirements for the new service is being communicated
3.Requirements for the service are being prioritized
4.Requirements for the service have been received
5.The service has been authorized

Answer

The Defined status option indicates that the requirements for the new service are being assessed, specified, and documented and that the Service Level Requirements (SLR) for the service are being produced.

The Chartered status option indicates that the set of requirements for the new service are being communicated and that resources and budgets for the new service have been allocated.

The Analyzed status option indicates that the set of requirements for the new service are being analyzed and prioritized.

The Requirements status option indicates that an outline of the requirements of a new service have been received from the organization's management or from IT.

The Approved status option indicates that the set of requirements for the new service have been finalized and authorized.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

Target 5 = Option E



Question

Once design of a service commences, the service may have one of seven different status options in the Service Portfolio.

Match the example of a status option to its meaning.

Options:
A.Operational
B.Designed
C.Released
D.Retired

Targets:
1.The service is functional
2.The service components are being created or acquired
3.The new service is being delivered into the live environment
4.The service is no longer in use

Answer

The Operational status indicates that the new service and its components have been implemented and are functional within the live environment.

The Designed status option indicates that the new service and its components are being designed, or procured if required.

The Released status option means that the new service and its components are being delivered into the live environment.

The Retired status option indicates that a service is no longer operational.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

5. Designing an enterprise architecture

Another aspect of Service Design is the design of technology and management architectures to support the new or changed service. This involves designing an enterprise architecture – a management system that translates business vision and strategy into effective enterprise change.



Question

What major areas should the enterprise architecture include?

Options:
1.Environmental architecture
2.Service architecture
3.Business architecture
4.IT infrastructure architecture
5.Technology management architecture
6.Information and data architecture

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The environmental architecture describes all aspects, types, and levels of environmental controls and their management. It is a major area in enterprise architecture.

Option 2: Correct. The service architecture translates applications, infrastructure, and organization and support activities into a set of services. It is a major area in enterprise architecture.

Option 3: Incorrect. The business architecture is not an area of the enterprise architecture. It includes the enterprise architecture, which forms an integrated part of the business architecture.

Option 4: Correct. The IT infrastructure architecture describes the structure, functionality, and geographical distribution of hardware, software, and communication components. It is a major area in enterprise architecture.

Option 5: Incorrect. The technology management architecture is not a major area of the enterprise architecture. It forms part of the IT infrastructure architecture.

Option 6: Correct. Information and data architecture describes the logical and physical data assets of the enterprise, and its data management resources. It is an important area in enterprise architecture.

Correct answer(s):

1. Environmental architecture
2. Service architecture
4. IT infrastructure architecture
6. Information and data architecture



Question

Identify the features of effective and economical IT management architecture design.

Options:
1.The IT management architecture must be closely aligned with business processes and activities
2.You must aim to maximize innovation in order to minimize the future risk of being overtaken by competitors
3.You must determine the cost of designing the architecture in relation to the anticipated benefits from the innovation by obtaining the cost to benefit ratio
4.The design of an IT management architecture involves only the design of IT infrastructures, technology, applications, data, and external services
5.You need to take the IT architectures of partners and suppliers into account when designing your IT management architecture

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The IT management architecture should be designed in line with business objectives, processes, and activities.

Option 2: Incorrect. Dynamic, continuous innovation that builds on existing infrastructure is less risky than too much innovation. The objective should be to obtain the best possible balance between innovation, risk, and cost.

Option 3: Correct. Costs – particularly ongoing operating costs – should be optimized by designing the new architecture around existing architecture as much as possible, while including the new features required to improve the quality of the service.

Option 4: Incorrect. Designing an IT management architecture does involve designing IT infrastructures, technology, applications, data, and external services. However, it also involves designing the systems with which to manage these elements.

Option 5: Correct. By taking the architectures of partners and suppliers into account, you can streamline your business processes with theirs. 

Correct answer(s):

1. The IT management architecture must be closely aligned with business processes and activities
3. You must determine the cost of designing the architecture in relation to the anticipated benefits from the innovation by obtaining the cost to benefit ratio
5. You need to take the IT architectures of partners and suppliers into account when designing your IT management architecture



Question

Which examples illustrate the factors to consider when designing an effective management architecture?

Options:
1.You design the management architecture by identifying an appropriate IT technology, around which you then design the necessary processes that are required to manage the technology 
2.You design the management architecture by choosing technology that supports the business objectives and requirements
3.You define the scope, tasks, and activities of the managers and staff involved in managing the provision of IT services before you design the processes and tools required to manage the architecture
4.You base the design of the management architecture on the existing IT infrastructure

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. An effective management architecture requires the alignment of IT technology with the management processes. 

Option 2: Correct. The design of a management architecture should be business-driven rather than based only on IT needs.

Option 3: Correct. This order follows the top-down approach for designing effective management architectures.

Option 4: Incorrect. Your design should be based on existing IT infrastructure only where this minimizes costs and risks.

Correct answer(s):

2. You design the management architecture by choosing technology that supports the business objectives and requirements
3. You define the scope, tasks, and activities of the managers and staff involved in managing the provision of IT services before you design the processes and tools required to manage the architecture

6. Designing required processes

Another aspect of Service Design is the design of the processes required for managing the new or changed service.

To design a process, you need to understand the roles of the individual process components and how they can be made to work together to form a process that functions effectively, efficiently, and consistently.



Question

What are the features of effective process design?

Options:
1.It ensures that process output is appropriate given the chosen measurement methods
2.It consists of defining only process input, process activities, process output, and process control
3.It is designed so that process quality can be controlled in relation to norms
4.It ensures that the output of a process is driven by business objectives

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. The methods used to measure the output of a process are intended to check whether the process objectives are being met. The methods should not drive the nature of the output.

Option 2: Incorrect. In addition to these process elements, the process enablers must be defined. These are the resources – financial, human, and so on – that determine how the process can be designed.

Option 3: Correct. By setting norms, the process owner can control the quality of a process by identifying process activities that can be optimized.

Option 4: Correct. Business objectives should determine the output you require from a process. For example, if it is an objective to reduce overall business operating costs, the process to deliver a particular service can be designed so that its output is to achieve cost reduction while maintaining the same level of quality.

Correct answer(s):

3. It is designed so that process quality can be controlled in relation to norms
4. It ensures that the output of a process is driven by business objectives

7. Designing measurement methods

The final aspect of Service Design is the design of measurement methods and metrics to measure the new or changed service.



Question

Select the types of metrics that are used to measure the capability and performance of a process.

Options:
1.Quality
2.Effectiveness
3.Progress
4.Speed
5.Resource usage
6.Efficiency
7.Compliance

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. When you measure a process, you don't only want to measure its quality. You want to measure whether it produces the level of quality specified in the process objectives – that is its effectiveness.

Option 2: Correct. When you measure the effectiveness of a process, you measure the accuracy and correctness of the process in terms of its objective – the ability of the process to deliver the right result.

Option 3: Correct. When you measure the progress of a process, you measure the capability of the process to reach milestones and to produce deliverables on time.

Option 4: Incorrect. When you measure a process, you want to measure whether it produces its output at the speed that is required to meet the objectives. You therefore need to measure its efficiency.

Option 5: Incorrect. When you measure a process, you want to measure whether it produces its output by using resources to the extent that is necessary to meet the process objectives. You therefore need to measure its efficiency and not just whether it uses resources optimally.

Option 6: Correct. When you measure the efficiency of a process, you measure its productivity – how quickly it delivers its output and the extent to which it consumes resources to produce its output.

Option 7: Correct. When you measure the compliance of a process, you measure its compliance with governance and regulatory requirements, as well as the compliance of people with the intended process use.

Correct answer(s):

2. Effectiveness
3. Progress
6. Efficiency
7. Compliance



Question

Which problems would a metrics tree help resolve?

Options:
1.A senior service manager wants to improve service quality and overall service functionality of existing services
2.Senior management wants to replace the existing network operating system technology
3.A service manager wants to address a customer complaint about a service
4.The tax rate changed, so IT managers must make expensive changes to the payroll software application
5.The organization uses commercially available word processing software for which it wants to get an upgrade
6.A file containing sales figures becomes corrupt in a network environment where regular backups are made

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The senior service manager can use the metrics tree to obtain customer feedback and service quality metrics. The manager can then use these metrics to introduce service improvements in line with business objectives.

Option 2: Correct. Management can use the metrics tree to calculate the business metrics and also to assess the extent to which the new operating system is expected to impact on the performance of existing business and IT processes.

Option 3: Incorrect. The metrics tree cannot really help to address a single complaint about one service. If a number of complaints are received, the metrics tree can be used to measure the impact of changing the service on overall service and business and IT objectives.

Option 4: Correct. Management can use the metrics tree to obtain business, IT, and process metrics to help assess the impact of replacing the software.

Option 5: Correct. The metrics tree can help management to assess the financial impact and the impact on process and staff performance of purchasing the upgrade.

Option 6: Incorrect. Because regular backups are made, this problem – involving a single component of a process – can be fixed quickly without any anticipated impact on the performance of business processes or on the business itself. In this case, the use of the metrics tree cannot help.

Correct answer(s):

1. A senior service manager wants to improve service quality and overall service functionality of existing services
2. Senior management wants to replace the existing network operating system technology
4. The tax rate changed, so IT managers must make expensive changes to the payroll software application
5. The organization uses commercially available word processing software for which it wants to get an upgrade

The five aspects of Service Design have been identified and the role of the ISG has been established.

The factors to consider when designing a solution for a new or changed service, the functions of the Service Portfolio as a management system, and the features of effective IT management architecture design have been identified.

The features of effective process design, types of metrics for measuring process performance, and examples of problems that can be solved using a metrics tree have also been established.

Back to top
 

© 2017 Skillsoft Ireland Limited
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
 
Print 

Course Transcript
 

ITIL® 2011 Edition Foundation: Service Design Processes
  

Service Level Management

1. Introduction to Service Level Management

2. Service Level Management Process Activities

3. Provide Service Level Management

Managing Key Service Design Processes

1. Design Coordination

2. Service Catalog and Availability Management

3. Measure Availability, Reliability, and Maintainability

4. Capacity Management and Supplier Management

5. Information Security Management and ITSCM

6. Understanding Service Design Processes
   

Introduction to Service Level Management
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize the basic concepts of Service Level Management
•identify the objectives of Service Level Management
 
1. Service Design processes

Several management processes guide effective Service Design.

The main purpose of Service Design processes is to provide key information for the design of new or changed service solutions.

The output of Service Design processes should be the design of service solutions that meet both business and customer needs.

Service Design includes eight processes.
Service Level Management (SLM)SLM involves negotiating Service Level Agreements (SLAs) and ensuring that they are adhered to. It also involves monitoring and reporting on service levels. 
Service Catalog ManagementService Catalog Management involves maintaining an accurate, central set of information on all services provided by an organization. A Service Catalog usually details a service's status, interfaces, and dependencies. 
Availability ManagementAvailability Management involves ensuring reliable, stable service availability for customers. 
Capacity ManagementCapacity Management involves ensuring that the capacity and performance of IT systems and infrastructures meet business requirements in the most cost-effective and timely way. 
Supplier ManagementSupplier Management involves ensuring that all contracted suppliers meet the needs of the organization, and that they deliver on all contractual agreements on time. 
Information Security ManagementInformation Security Management provides strategic direction for security activities. It ensures that information is secure and that assets are used appropriately. 
IT Service Continuity ManagementIT Service Continuity Management supports business continuity management processes by ensuring that IT infrastructure and service facilities can be recovered after a disaster within an agreed timescale. 
Design coordinationDesign coordination involves ensuring the overall goals and objectives of the Service Design stage are met by providing and maintaining a single point of coordination and control for all activities and processes within the Service Design stage of the Service Lifecycle. 

Service Design processes should be used during each of the five aspects of Service Design.

These aspects include the design of
• solutions for new or changed services, including their functional requirements, assets, and required resources and capabilities 
• management information systems and tools, including the Service Portfolio 
• required technology and management architectures 
• the business processes required to design, transition to, operate, and improve the new or changed services and architectures, and 
• the measurement methods and metrics required for the services and their components 

Throughout Service Design, a results-driven approach must be adopted to ensure that IT services provide planned business outcomes and results, and meet customers' requirements and expectations.

Question Set



Service Design processes are responsible for providing key information to the design of new or changed service solutions.

Question 1 of 2



Question

What are some of the Service Design processes?

Options:
1.Service Level Management (SLM)
2.Service Catalog Management
3.Availability Management
4.Capacity Management
5.Measurement methods and metrics for services
6.Technology architectures and management systems

Answer

Option 1: Correct. SLM is a key Service Design process. It involves negotiating SLAs and ensuring that they are adhered to.

Option 2: Correct. Service Catalog Management is a key Service Design process. It involves maintaining accurate information on all services provided by the organization.

Option 3: Correct. Availability Management is a key Service Design process. It ensures consistent service availability for customers.

Option 4: Correct. Capacity Management is a key Service Design process. It ensures that IT infrastructure is able to meet business requirements.

Option 5: Incorrect. Measurement methods and metrics required to measure service performance aren't a process for managing Service Design. The design of these methods and metrics is one of the five aspects of Service Design that the processes manage.

Option 6: Incorrect. Technology architectures and management systems are not one of the main Service Design processes. The design of technology architectures and management systems is an aspect of Service Design.

Correct answer(s):

1. Service Level Management (SLM)
2. Service Catalog Management
3. Availability Management
4. Capacity Management

Question 2 of 2



Question

Identify some of the processes included in Service Design.

Options:
1.Supplier Management
2.IT Service Continuity Management
3.Service Management tool design
4.Information Security Management
5.Service Portfolio design
6.Design coordination

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Supplier Management is a key Service Design process. Its purpose is to ensure that all contracted suppliers meet the needs of the business.

Option 2: Correct. IT Service Continuity Management is a key Service Design process. Its main purpose is to support business continuity by ensuring that IT infrastructure can be recovered after a disaster within an agreed timescale.

Option 3: Incorrect. Designing Service Management tools, including the Service Portfolio, isn't a Service Design process. It's one of the aspects of Service Design that processes are used to regulate and control.

Option 4: Correct. Information Security Management is a key Service Design process. It provides strategic direction for security activities and aims to ensure that all information is secure.

Option 5: Incorrect. The design of the Service Portfolio is not one of the main Service Design processes, but an aspect of Service Design. The processes are used during the design of the Service Portfolio.

Option 6: Correct. The purpose of the design coordination process is to coordinate and control the activities and processes of the Service Design stage so that all goals and objectives of this stage are met.

Correct answer(s):

1. Supplier Management
2. IT Service Continuity Management
4. Information Security Management
6. Design coordination

The development of contracts is an important part of the Service Design process.

A contract is a legally binding commitment between a customer and a supplier. It sets out the obligations and responsibilities of each party, as well as the targets that must be met – during and sometimes even after the delivery of services.

Generally, a contract contains commercial and legal clauses, specifying the nature of the commitment between parties and ensuring that this commitment is enforceable.

It forms the basis on which trust in a business relationship is developed.

Contracts may also include other agreed terms, such as
• security requirements 
• business continuity requirements 
• mandated technical standards 
• migration plans, and 
• disclosure agreements 

2. Introduction to Service Level Management

The purpose of Service Level Management (SLM) is to make sure an agreed level of service is provided and maintained for delivered IT services.

It does this by ensuring agreed and achievable targets are set, and that operational services and their performance are monitored regularly throughout an organization.

It also ensures that the services and reports that are produced meet both business and customer requirements.

In the past, many organizations regarded SLM simply as the management of agreements dealing with system availability or help desk calls. However, this is no longer the case.

Instead, SLM is now seen as a crucial part of Continual Service Improvement (CSI) that must drive IT services. By ensuring service levels are managed continually to meet agreed targets, it facilitates the development of trusted partnerships.

Basic concepts that are central to SLM include the management of service levels in relation to
suppliersA supplier is a third-party provider that is responsible for providing components, supplies, or services required to create and deliver a service to a customer. Suppliers are managed by underpinning contracts that ensure that the supplier meets the targets that are required to fulfill the SLA. Although a separate process is responsible for managing suppliers, SLM is responsible for defining, documenting, monitoring, and reporting associated service levels.SLAs, andAn SLA is an agreement between a service provider and a customer that defines the key service targets and responsibilities of both parties. SLM establishes SLAs to manage the service provided and customer expectations, and to meet agreed quality requirements.Operational Level Agreements (OLAs)SLM is responsible for ensuring that all targets agreed in SLAs with an organization are supported by appropriate underpinning OLAs. An OLA is an agreement between the service provider and another area or department of the same organization that assists with the provision of services. An OLA should define the targets that support those agreed in the SLA. This ensures that targets will not be breached by failure of the supporting activity, department, or supplier.


Question

Identify the basic concepts of SLM.

Options:
1.Managing agreement between service provider and customer, and defining targets
2.Defining, documenting, monitoring, and reporting the service levels provided by third-party suppliers
3.Managing OLAs
4.Managing Service Catalogs
5.Managing Service Portfolios

Answer

Option 1: Correct. An SLA is an agreement between a service provider and a customer that defines the requirements of both parties. An important role of SLM is managing SLAs.

Option 2: Correct. Suppliers are third-party providers that supply components or services needed to deliver a particular service. They impact directly on service levels. Although a separate process is responsible for managing suppliers, SLM is responsible for defining, documenting, monitoring, and reporting associated service levels.

Option 3: Correct. An OLA is an agreement between the service provider and another area or department of the same organization that assists with the provision of services. SLM is responsible for managing OLAs.

Option 4: Incorrect. Service Catalogs are managed during the Service Catalog Management process, rather than through SLM.

Option 5: Incorrect. Service Portfolios are managed during the Service Portfolio Management process, rather than through SLM.

Correct answer(s):

1. Managing agreement between service provider and customer, and defining targets
2. Defining, documenting, monitoring, and reporting the service levels provided by third-party suppliers
3. Managing OLAs

The objectives of SLM are to ensure that
• the level of all IT services is defined, documented, agreed, monitored, measured, reported on, and reviewed 
• relationships and communications with customers are improved at all levels within the business and customer community 
• measurable targets exist for all services 
• customer satisfaction is managed and improved with the level of service quality provided 
• both IT service providers and customers have clear and unambiguous expectations of the level of service to be provided, and 
• measures are taken to improve service levels where it is financially justifiable to do so 



Question

What are the objectives of SLM?

Options:
1.To define, monitor, and report the service level of IT services provided
2.To improve relationships
3.To establish measurable targets
4.To improve customer satisfaction
5.To ensure that customers have clear expectations
6.To ensure that improvements are implemented
7.To improve the quality of the Service Portfolio
8.To ensure that IT infrastructure supports customers' needs

Answer

Option 1: Correct. SLM aims to define, document, agree, monitor, measure, and review the service level of all IT services.

Option 2: Correct. Improving relationships is an objective of SLM. SLM aims to build relationships with all customer groups within the customer community.

Option 3: Correct. Establishing specific, measurable targets for services is an objective of SLM. These targets are included in SLAs.

Option 4: Correct. SLM aims to improve customer satisfaction with the level of quality of all services provided.

Option 5: Correct. Ensuring that both customers and the service provider have clear, unambiguous expectations of the level of service to be provided is an objective of SLM.

Option 6: Correct. Ensuring that service improvements are implemented, where this is financially justified, is an objective of SLM.

Option 7: Incorrect. SLM does not improve the quality of the Service Portfolio. Instead, the Service Portfolio is an input into SLM.

Option 8: Incorrect. Capacity Management – rather than SLM – is the process responsible for ensuring that IT infrastructure supports business and customer needs.

Correct answer(s):

1. To define, monitor, and report the service level of IT services provided
2. To improve relationships
3. To establish measurable targets
4. To improve customer satisfaction
5. To ensure that customers have clear expectations
6. To ensure that improvements are implemented

3. Summary

Service Design is responsible for providing information for all new or modified services. It comprises eight processes – design coordination, SLM, Service Catalog Management, Availability Management, Capacity Management, Supplier Management, Information Security Management, and IT Service Continuity Management.

The purpose of SLM is to ensure that an agreed level of service is provided for all services. The objectives of SLM include managing the level of IT services provided, improving relationships, ensuring measurable targets are set, improving customer satisfaction, ensuring customers have clear expectations, and ensuring that service improvements are implemented.

Back to top
 

Service Level Management Process Activities
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize how to conduct the activities involved in the negotiating phase of the SLM process
•recognize how to conduct the activities in the monitoring and reporting phases of the SLM process
•recognize the activities in the reviewing phase of the SLM process
 
1. Service Level Management activities

Service Level Management (SLM) involves several key activities. These activities can be organized into four phases.
NegotiatingThe activities within the negotiating phase include designing Service Level Agreement (SLA) frameworks, determining and documenting requirements for new services and producing Service Level Requirements (SLRs), and developing contacts and relationships. 
MonitoringThe activities within the monitoring phase include monitoring service performance against SLAs, and measuring, collating information about, and improving customer satisfaction. 
ReportingThe activities within the reporting phase include producing service reports and logging and managing complaints and compliments. 
ReviewingThe activities within the reviewing phase include reviewing and revising underpinning agreements, conducting service reviews, and instigating improvements within an overall Service Improvement Program (SIP). They also include reviewing and revising SLAs. 



Question

What are some of the key activities of SLM?

Options:
1.Designing SLA frameworks
2.Producing SLRs
3.Developing and documenting contacts and relationships
4.Monitoring service performance
5.Improving customer satisfaction
6.Updating the Service Catalog
7.Implementing information security systems

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Designing SLA frameworks, which involves ensuring that all services and all customers are covered in a matter best suited to the organization's needs, is an activity of SLM.

Option 2: Correct. Determining, documenting, and agreeing on requirements for new services and then producing SLRs is an important activity of SLM.

Option 3: Correct. Developing and documenting contacts and relationships with customers is an activity of SLM.

Option 4: Correct. Monitoring service performance against the agreed service levels specified in SLAs is an activity of SLM.

Option 5: Correct. Measuring, collating information about, and improving customer satisfaction is an activity of SLM.

Option 6: Incorrect. The Service Catalog Management process – rather than SLM – is responsible for managing the Service Catalog.

Option 7: Incorrect. The Information Security Management process – rather than SLM – is responsible for managing the security of information.

Correct answer(s):

1. Designing SLA frameworks
2. Producing SLRs
3. Developing and documenting contacts and relationships
4. Monitoring service performance
5. Improving customer satisfaction



Question

Identify some additional key activities in the SLM process.

Options:
1.Producing service level reports
2.Managing customer complaints
3.Instigating service improvements
4.Revising SLAs
5.Monitoring service performance against SLRs
6.Evaluating the capacity of technology infrastructure

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Producing service level reports is an activity in the SLM process.

Option 2: Correct. Logging and managing customer complaints and compliments are activities in the SLM process.

Option 3: Correct. Conducting service reviews and instigating improvements within an overall SIP are activities in the SLM process.

Option 4: Correct. Reviewing and revising SLAs and underpinning agreements are activities in the SLM process.

Option 5: Incorrect. A key activity in SLM is the monitoring of service performance against SLAs, rather than against SLRs.

Option 6: Incorrect. SLM is concerned primarily with managing SLAs and relationships with customers. It doesn't include the management of capacity.

Correct answer(s):

1. Producing service level reports
2. Managing customer complaints
3. Instigating service improvements
4. Revising SLAs

2. The negotiating phase

The negotiating phase of SLM involves designing SLA frameworks, determining, documenting, and obtaining agreement on requirements for new services, and developing and documenting contacts and relationships with the business, customers, and other stakeholders, in cooperation with the Business Relationship Management (BRM) process.

Designing SLA frameworks involves using the Service Catalog to design appropriate SLA structures which are based on business and customer needs.

An SLA can take many forms. Whatever structure the SLA takes, the wording it includes must be clear, concise, and unambiguous. It is therefore recommended that each SLA contain a glossary that defines and clarifies the terms it uses.

There are three types of SLA structures.
Service-based SLAA service-based SLA covers generic service requirements for a particular service and for all customers that make use of that service. This type of SLA does not cater for customers that have different, specific requirements. It also provides little coverage for customers if the characteristics of the infrastructure make varying service levels unavoidable. Therefore, this type of SLA is most appropriate when a broad range of customers or business areas share common service level requirements. 
Customer-based SLAA customer-based SLA covers service agreements for all services that are used by a particular customer group. This type of SLA provides advantages for customers because it lists all their service level requirements within one document. Only one signatory is required. 
Multilevel SLAA multilevel SLA usually comprises three levels – corporate, customer, and service. The corporate level covers the generic SLM requirements of every customer throughout the organization. The customer level covers SLM issues relevant to a customer group. The service level covers SLM issues relevant to the service, in relation to the customer group. 

Producing SLRs is one of the earliest activities in the Service Design stage of the Service Lifecycle. An SLR is a customer requirement for an aspect of an IT service. SLRs are based on business objectives and are used to negotiate agreed service level targets.

As a service progresses through its lifecycle, an SLR develops into an SLA.

It is important to get customers involved at this stage. It is also useful to create an outline of the performance targets, and management and operational requirements, as a starting point for a detailed discussion with the customer.

Determining the initial targets that need to be included within the SLR or SLA can be very difficult. It is therefore important for all other processes, such as Capacity and Availability Management, to provide the input that is needed when determining realistic targets.

If there is any doubt about whether a target needs to be included, it should be included in a draft SLA. The draft SLA can then be monitored and adjusted throughout the service warranty period.

The draft SLA is used during negotiations with the customer to finalize service targets, and with the service provider to ensure that the targets are achievable.

An important activity of SLM is developing and documenting contacts and relationships with customers. This ensures that the organization develops trust and respect with its customers.

The Service Catalog provides information that can help in the development of relationships with customers. It identifies the relationships between services and the customer business areas that depend on them. In addition, it should provide key contacts for each service.

There are several activities that take place during the SLM process to develop contacts and relationships. These activities include
• confirming stakeholders, managers in key business areas, and customers 
• maintaining accurate information within the Service Catalog and Service Portfolio 
• being flexible and responsive to the needs of the customer 
• developing a full understanding of the customer, the customer's organization, and strategies 
• regularly sampling the customer experience 
• conducting customer surveys and acting on the results, and 
• ensuring that the correct relationship processes are in place to achieve objectives 

Other activities for developing relationships and contacts are
• marketing and exploiting the Service Portfolio and Service Catalog 
• assisting with maintaining a list of outstanding improvements 
• ensuring that the organization and customers understand their responsibilities 
• facilitating the negotiation of SLRs and SLAs 
• raising the awareness of the business benefits when using new technology 
• promoting service awareness, and 
• ensuring that IT provides the most appropriate levels of service 



Question

Which activities involving negotiation are included in the SLM process?

Options:
1.Designing an appropriate type of SLA
2.Identifying requirements for service levels
3.Building trust with customers
4.Outlining service operation requirements before consulting customers
5.Identifying relationships between services and the customer business areas that depend on them

Answer

Option 1: Correct. A key activity in the SLM process is designing an appropriate SLA structure based on the organization's needs. A draft SLA is used during negotiations with the customer to finalize service targets and with the service provider to ensure that the targets are achievable. SLAs can use customer-based, client-based, or multilevel structures.

Option 2: Correct. A key activity in SLM is determining, documenting, and obtaining agreement on the service requirements to be included in SLRs. Outlines should include both performance targets and management requirements.

Option 3: Correct. Developing and documenting contacts and relationships with customers is an important activity in SLM because it builds trust between the organization and its customers. The Service Catalog provides information that can guide this activity.

Option 4: Incorrect. SLM is responsible for identifying and finalizing service operation requirements. However, these need to be defined with the participation of customers.

Option 5: Incorrect. The Service Catalog identifies the relationships between services and the customer business areas in which they address needs. This is an input to the SLM process, rather than an activity for which it's responsible.

Correct answer(s):

1. Designing an appropriate type of SLA
2. Identifying requirements for service levels
3. Building trust with customers

3. The monitoring and reporting phases

The monitoring phase of SLM involves monitoring service performance against SLAs and collating, measuring, and improving customer satisfaction.

The reporting phase of SLM involves producing service reports and logging and managing customer complaints and compliments, in coordination with BRM.

Monitoring service performance against SLAs helps ensure that services are operating optimally and meeting customer requirements.

Only specific targets that can be measured and monitored should be included in an SLA. The inclusion of targets that cannot be monitored can result in disputes and loss of faith in SLM.

An important activity in the SLM process is to collate, measure, and improve customer satisfaction, in cooperation with BRM. This requires monitoring service levels with an understanding of customers' perceptions of service delivery.

Existing monitoring capabilities within the organization should be reviewed and upgraded as necessary. Without monitoring each component of a service, it is hard to gain a complete picture of customer perception.

Many organizations use service desk metrics to monitor customers' perception of service availability. Service desk metrics can also be used to assess incident response and resolution times.



Note

Criteria for logging customer complaints or compliments should be discussed and agreed upon with those responsible for the Availability Management process, and in coordination with BRM.

However, the organization needs to ensure that incident-handling targets included in the SLA are the same as those included in the service desk metrics being captured.

It is best to manage customer perceptions from the outset. This can be achieved by ensuring that appropriate service targets are set and by putting a process in place to manage customer expectations.

The aim should be to provide services that customers need and that are justified in terms of cost and strategy. However, senior business managers need to ensure that no customer group places unrealistic demands on the service provider.

Customer perception can be managed through
• periodic customer questionnaires and surveys 
• customer feedback from review meetings 
• feedback from a Post Implementation Review (PIR) 
• user group and forum meetings, or 
• analysis of customer complaints and compliments 

Whatever method is used to manage customer perception, it is important to ensure that if customers provide feedback, the organization demonstrates a commitment to its customers by acting on this feedback.

Key reporting activities in the SLM process include producing service reports, and logging and managing customer complaints and compliments.

SLM is responsible for identifying reporting needs and automating production of the required reports. It should also ensure that the reports include information on past performance and trends, so that the impact of improvement actions can be measured and predicted.

The results of monitoring must be used to produce service reports.

Periodic reports should include details of service performance and SLA targets. They may also include information about trends or actions that will improve the quality of the service.

Exceptional reports should be created whenever the SLA for a service is breached. Organizations should also create periodic reports based on their review cycles.

A Service Level Agreement Monitoring (SLAM) chart can also be used to assist in monitoring and reporting on actual achievements in relation to set targets. A SLAM chart is usually color coded to indicate whether each agreed target has been met, missed, or almost missed.

SLM should include procedures for logging and managing customer complaints and compliments. The service desk is usually responsible for logging complaints and compliments because it plays a key role in Incident Management.

Complaints and compliments should be defined and validated with the customer and identifiable key points of contact to ensure that they are communicated to the relevant parties for analysis. In this way, all complaints are managed and acted upon to the satisfaction of the customer.

SLM should define escalation procedures for complaints that are not acted upon appropriately or within predefined times. Reports should also be created to identify the types of complaints, trends, and the actions taken to resolve them. Similar reports should be created to monitor compliments.



Question

Identify monitoring and reporting activities in the SLM process.

Options:
1.Ensuring that service levels are meeting agreed targets
2.Managing customer perceptions and satisfaction
3.Reporting on service performance
4.Logging and responding to customer complaints
5.Ensuring reliable service availability
6.Implementing all service changes and updates requested by customers

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Monitoring service performance against agreed targets in SLAs is a key activity in the SLM process. The service provider may need to review and upgrade existing monitoring tools to align with specified SLA targets.

Option 2: Correct. A key activity in SLM is measuring, collating information about, and improving customer satisfaction – or customers' perceptions of service quality and delivery. A process must be implemented for managing customer expectations, in coordination with BRM.

Option 3: Correct. Producing service reports is a key activity in SLM. The service provider should produce periodic reports to review service performance. Exceptional reports should be produced when SLA targets are breached.

Option 4: Correct. Logging and managing customer complaints and compliments is a key activity in SLM. It's important that all customer complaints are acknowledged and acted upon.

Option 5: Incorrect. Availability Management – rather than SLM – involves ensuring reliable, stable service availability for customers. However, SLM plays a role in ensuring that agreed availability targets are met and in monitoring customer satisfaction with existing service availability.

Option 6: Incorrect. The SLM process needs to consider all customer requests for changes or upgrades. However, relevant changes or upgrades should be implemented only if they justified in terms of cost and are likely to result in improved customer satisfaction.

Correct answer(s):

1. Ensuring that service levels are meeting agreed targets
2. Managing customer perceptions and satisfaction
3. Reporting on service performance
4. Logging and responding to customer complaints

4. The reviewing phase

The reviewing phase of SLM involves reviewing and revising underpinning agreements, conducting service reviews, and implementing improvements.

SLM must review and revise underpinning agreements to ensure that they are comprehensive, kept up-to-date, and aligned with business needs.

The results of this review can serve as inputs for Change and Configuration Management.



Graphic

ITIL®s Service Design publication references these actions as part of the review process:

1. Conduct service reviews and instigate improvements within an overall SIP
2. Review and revise agreements and scope, and Implement improvements

SLM includes conducting service reviews and implementing improvements regularly with customers. It also includes analyzing service performance in the previous period. This helps identify issues that might arise in the future.

Review meetings ensure that actions are taken by the customer and service provider to improve weak areas, where targets are not being met.

If it is decided that SLA targets are unachievable, new, achievable targets must be defined. If it is determined that the SLA breach is caused by failure of a third-party provider, underpinning agreements must be revised.

Because IT service providers are dependent on their own internal technical support teams or on external partners or suppliers, it is important to implement improvements by reviewing and revising SLAs, and underpinning agreements.

When utilizing external suppliers' contracts is mandatory, it is also useful to have agreements with internal support groups through Operational Level Agreements (OLAs). OLAs reflect the need to ensure that all targets within the agreement are aligned with the targets within the SLA.

SLAs should define the expected time frame and process to escalate incidents, and the expected time frame for resolving them. OLAs define the support hours required from all groups that underpin the service availability times in the SLA.

OLAs should be monitored against SLA targets and reports should be produced regularly to provide feedback to the support teams. This helps the service provider identify problem areas that need to be addressed.



Question

Which of the following review activities are conducted in the SLM process?

Options:
1.Review and update contracts with suppliers
2.Improve weak areas in which service targets are not being met
3.Ensure that targets defined in the OLA are aligned with the SLA
4.Ensure that all underpinning contracts with internal IT suppliers remain unchanged
5.Hold review meetings only when service level targets are breached

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Reviewing and revising underpinning agreements is an SLM activity. The service provider needs to ensure that all contracts support customer needs.

Option 2: Correct. Conducting service reviews and initiating improvements are key activities in the SLM process.

Option 3: Correct. The SLA defines the process and expected time frame to escalate incidents, initiate investigations, and resolve incidents. The OLA defines the support hours required from all groups to ensure that service availability times in the SLA are met. Targets defined in the OLA must therefore align with the SLA. The SLM process reviews and revises SLAs and underpinning agreements.

Option 4: Incorrect. The service provider needs to review and update all underpinning contracts to ensure that they are able to support the service and meet the needs of the customer.

Option 5: Incorrect. Review meetings need to be held regularly, instead of only when SLA targets are breached. Review meetings are held to ensure that a service is operating optimally.

Correct answer(s):

1. Review and update contracts with suppliers
2. Improve weak areas in which service targets are not being met
3. Ensure that targets defined in the OLA are aligned with the SLA

5. Summary

SLM comprises many different activities. These activities can be divided into four phases – negotiating, monitoring, reporting, and reviewing. 

The negotiating phase involves designing SLA frameworks, determining, documenting, and obtaining agreement on requirements, and developing contacts and relationships.

The monitoring phase involves monitoring service performance against SLAs, and collating, measuring, and improving customer satisfaction. The reporting category involves producing service reports, and logging and managing complaints and compliments in coordination with BRM. 

The reviewing phase involves reviewing and revising underpinning agreements, conducting service reviews, and implementing improvements.

Back to top
 

Provide Service Level Management
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•Identify the basics of Service Level Management and how to conduct process activities
 
1. Exercise overview

In this exercise, you're required to recognize the purpose and activities of effective Service Level Management (SLM).

This involves the following tasks:
•identifying the basics of SLM, and
•recognizing how to conduct SLM process activities

2. Understanding SLM basics



Question

SLM is one of eight Service Design processes.

Identify the other Service Design processes.

Options:
1.Service Catalog Management
2.Availability Management
3.Capacity Management
4.Supplier Management
5.Information Security Management
6.IT Service Continuity Management
7.Technology Design
8.Service Measurement
9.Design coordination

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Service Catalog Management is a Service Design process. It involves maintaining information on all services offered by the service provider.

Option 2: Correct. Availability Management is a Service Design process. It ensures that services are delivered reliably.

Option 3: Correct. Capacity Management is a Service Design process. It ensures that supporting IT infrastructure is able to meet customers' service requirements.

Option 4: Correct. Supplier Management is a Service Design process. It ensures that suppliers are able to meet the service requirements of customers.

Option 5: Correct. Information Security Management is a Service Design process for ensuring that all information is secure.

Option 6: Correct. IT Service Continuity Management is a Service Design process for ensuring that services can be recovered after a disaster.

Option 7: Incorrect. Technology design is not a Service Design process. Service Design manages IT infrastructure to ensure that service solutions are supported, but it doesn't design actual technologies.

Option 8: Incorrect. Service measurement is not a Service Design process. However, measuring service performance is an important activity in Service Design processes.

Option 9: Correct. Design coordination ensures the goals and objectives of the Service Design stage can be met through a single point of coordination and control for all activities and processes.

Correct answer(s):

1. Service Catalog Management
2. Availability Management
3. Capacity Management
4. Supplier Management
5. Information Security Management
6. IT Service Continuity Management
9. Design coordination



Question

The objectives of SLM include improving customer relationships and customer satisfaction.

Identify the other objectives of SLM.

Options:
1.Managing IT service levels
2.Ensuring that measurable service targets are set
3.Clarifying customer expectations
4.Ensuring that service improvements are implemented
5.Improving the quality of the Service Portfolio
6.Ensuring that the IT infrastructure supports offered services

Answer

Option 1: Correct. SLM defines, documents, monitors, and reviews the level of all IT services provided.

Option 2: Correct. SLM ensures that all targets specified in the SLA for a service are measurable and achievable.

Option 3: Correct. SLM ensures that IT service providers and customers have clear, unambiguous expectations of the level of service to be provided.

Option 4: Correct. SLM ensures that all financially justifiable service improvements are implemented and managed.

Option 5: Incorrect. SLM does not aim to improve the quality of the Service Portfolio. Instead, the Service Portfolio is an input into SLM.

Option 6: Incorrect. Ensuring that the IT infrastructure supports offered services relates to Capacity Management, not SLM. SLM focuses on managing service levels, rather than on managing capacity or infrastructure.

Correct answer(s):

1. Managing IT service levels
2. Ensuring that measurable service targets are set
3. Clarifying customer expectations
4. Ensuring that service improvements are implemented

3. Recognizing SLM process activities



Question

One of the key activities in the SLM process involves designing an SLA.

Match each type of SLA to its characteristic.

Options:
A.Customer-based SLA
B.Service-based SLA
C.Multilevel SLA

Targets:
1.Covers all service requirements of one customer group
2.Covers service requirements for a particular service
3.Covers corporate, customer, and service-based requirements

Answer

Customer-based SLAs cover the service requirements of one customer group for all services used by the group. This type of SLA has advantages for the customer because it lists all their requirements in a single document, requiring only one signatory.

Service-based SLAs cover the generic requirements for a particular service, rather than the requirements of a particular customer or customer group. This type of SLA is most appropriate when a broad range of customers requires a common service level.

Multilevel SLAs usually cover service requirements at the corporate, customer, and service levels. This type of SLA provides the most in-depth coverage of service requirements and targets.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C



Question

Match each SLM process that involves negotiating with the activity it involves. One activity may not be used.

Options:
A.Develop contacts and relationships
B.Determine requirements for new services

Targets:
1.Identify the relationships between services and the business areas that utilize them
2.Create an outline of each service's performance targets and management requirements 
3.Ask the service desk to log complaints and compliments

Answer

SLM uses the Service Catalog to identify relationships between services and the business areas that utilize them, as well as key customer contacts. This assists SLM in developing relationships with customers.

Through SLM, the requirements for new services are defined with the customer and documented in the SLR. The SLR forms the basis for an SLA.

You use the service desk to log complaints and compliments of the service so that you can analyze them and instigate improvements. Analyzing customer complaints and compliments is an activity of the monitoring phase of SLM, not the negotiating phase.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 =No Option Specified.



Question

Match the SLM process with the activity it involves.

Options:
A.Monitor service performance against SLAs
B.Collate, measure, and improve customer satisfaction
C.Conduct service reviews

Targets:
1.Ensuring that services are meeting customer requirements
2.Putting processes in place to manage customer expectations
3.Develop methods that improve areas that do not meet targets

Answer

SLM needs to monitor service performance against the targets set in the SLA. SLM also needs to revise existing monitoring tools to align with any new SLA targets.

SLM needs to implement processes for collating, measuring, and improving customer satisfaction to enable the management of customers' expectations. SLM needs to ensure that these expectations match to provided service levels.

Review meetings ensure that actions are taken by the customer and service provider to improve areas of a service that do not meet targets.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C



Question

What information is the SLM process responsible for reporting?

Options:
1.Customer complaints and compliments
2.Service performance details
3.The quality of the Service Catalog
4.The level of service provided by IT infrastructure

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Service providers need to report on all complaints and compliments received from the customer. The service provider also need to ensure that all complaints are escalated to the appropriate parties to ensure that they are resolved.

Option 2: Correct. Service providers need to produce periodic reports to monitor the performance of all SLA targets in order to identify any weakness and take the necessary action.

Option 3: Incorrect. The Service Catalog Management process – rather than SLM – manages the quality of the Service Catalog.

Option 4: Incorrect. The Capacity Management process – rather than SLM – manages the capacity of the IT infrastructure to support services. However, SLM is responsible for identifying and reporting on any failures to provide agreed service levels.

Correct answer(s):

1. Customer complaints and compliments
2. Service performance details



Question

OLAs should be revised when reviewing and revising SLAs and underpinning agreements.

For what purpose may an organization use an OLA?

Options:
1.To define service level targets for support groups 
2.To define all service level targets for a service
3.To manage service improvement initiatives

Answer

Option 1: Correct. OLAs define the service level targets to be met by all support groups that underpin service availability and efficiency.

Option 2: Incorrect. SLAs – rather than OLAs – are used to define and document customer requirements for a particular service.

Option 3: Incorrect. SLM uses SIPs – rather than OLAs – to initiate, manage, and implement service improvement initiatives.

Correct answer(s):

1. To define service level targets for support groups 



Question

Service providers need to review and revise SLAs to ensure that they continue to meet needs and include realistic service targets.

What else must be reviewed as part of the SLM process?

Options:
1.Contracts with suppliers
2.Service performance
3.Business Service Catalog 

Answer

Option 1: Correct. A key activity in SLM is reviewing underpinning agreements for services. This includes reviewing contracts with suppliers to ensure that they support the needs of the customer.

Option 2: Correct. Important SLM activities include regularly reviewing and reporting on service performance, and implementing improvements in areas where weaknesses are identified.

Option 3: Incorrect. The Business Service Catalog is used but not created or reviewed during the SLM process. It's managed as part of Service Catalog Management.

Correct answer(s):

1. Contracts with suppliers
2. Service performance

The purpose and activities of effective SLM have been recognized.

Back to top
 

Design Coordination
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize the scope of design coordination
•describe the activities in the design coordination process
•identify the challenges and risks of design coordination
 
1. Scope

The Service Design stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle involves many complex activities. The design coordination process helps IT service providers manage and organize these activities so that designs are created to support business outcomes.

Design coordination has the following objectives:
• ensuring the consistent design of Service Management Information Systems, architectures, and technologies 
• coordinating design activities across projects, and managing schedules, resources, and conflicts 
• producing service design packages (SDPs) based on service charters and change requests 
• planning and coordinating resources and capabilities required by Service Design, and 
• managing the quality criteria and handover points between the Service Design stage, and Service Strategy and Service Transition stages 

There are several other design coordination objectives:
• ensuring that all service models and solution designs meet requirements 
• improving the effectiveness and efficiency of Service Design activities and processes 
• monitoring and improving the performance of the Service Design Lifecycle stage, and 
• ensuring a common framework of standards regarding activities, processes, and supporting systems 

The scope of the design coordination process includes all design activity, such as service solutions, that need to be transitioned into, or out of, a live environment.

Certain design activities and projects require more coordination than others. For example, one activity could be part of a large complex project, while another is a simple, individual activity.

Generally, medium to large scale projects require many coordination processes, but the number depends on the needs of the organization. Outline criteria can be used to include or exclude activities in the design coordination process.

The scope of design coordination also includes
• assisting and supporting projects and changes through Service Design activities and processes 
• maintaining policies, guidelines, budgets, models, and resources for activities and processes 
• coordinating, prioritizing, and scheduling resources for Service Design 
• planning and forecasting resources for future Service Design activities 
• reviewing and improving the performance of Service Design activities and processes 
• addressing the utility and warranty requirements of Service Design activities, and 
• producing SDPs and handing them over to Service Transition 

Design coordination excludes activities and processes such as designing service solution details and producing individual parts for SDPs.



Question

Which options form part of the scope and objectives of the design coordination process?

Options:
1.Reviewing the performance of Service Design activities by ensuring they meet user requirements
2.Planning and forecasting resources such as staff and time for Service Design activities
3.Coordinating Service Design activities across all projects 
4.Managing the quality criteria of Service Design activities
5.Producing individual parts of SDPs and handing it over to Service Strategy
6.Managing service activities in the Service Operation stage

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The design coordination process ensures that the activities and processes it involves are constantly improved to enhance projects and individual activities.

Option 2: Correct. Part of the design coordination process involves ensuring that sufficient resources are allocated in order for activities to be carried out properly.

Option 3: Correct. One of the main aims of design coordination is ensuring that all activities reach their objectives and fulfill business outcome requirements.

Option 4: Correct. The design coordination process can define certain criteria for each activity to calculate how much attention and coordination is required.

Option 5: Incorrect. The design coordination process does produce SDPs, but not its individual parts. It also ensures that the SDP is handed over to Service Transition and not Service Strategy.

Option 6: Incorrect. Design coordination doesn't include activities or processes outside the Service Design stage. These activities are the responsibility of the Service Design stage in which they take place.

Correct answer(s):

1. Reviewing the performance of Service Design activities by ensuring they meet user requirements
2. Planning and forecasting resources such as staff and time for Service Design activities
3. Coordinating Service Design activities across all projects 
4. Managing the quality criteria of Service Design activities

There are several reasons why design coordination is useful:
• it achieves services at acceptable risks and costs 
• it minimizes rework and labor costs 
• it increases customer and user satisfaction, and confidence in IT and IT services, and 
• it ensures architectures are consistent and allows for data integration and exchange 

Design coordination also
• focuses on service value and business, and customer outcomes 
• improves the efficiency and effectiveness of Service Design activities and processes 
• supports successful change delivery in a timely and cost-effective manner, and 
• achieves greater agility and quality in designing service solutions 

2. Principles, policies, and activities

Design coordination needs guidelines and policies to ensure a structured and holistic approach to design activities. These policies are defined by service providers because they decide how much attention or coordination design activities require.

For example, an IT service provider indicates that the design portion of all projects should receive individual coordination.

Policies should be in place to ensure design activities are properly documented.

For example, a policy stating that design efforts – that form part of a project – must get a full SDP, while smaller changes need only be documented.

The design coordination process includes policies such as
• adherence to corporate standards and conventions 
• standards for new or changed services such as documentation, training, and communications and marketing 
• governance and regulatory compliance in all design activities, and 
• criteria for how to resolve conflicting demands for Service Design resources 

The main goal of policies is to create value and positive results. However, you shouldn't spend more time creating policies than implementing them.

As a guideline, the design coordination process must have balance in order to address all aspects of utility, warranty, and the needs of the service throughout its lifecycle.

Another guideline is to build on current practices and to continually search for ways to improve them. To do this, you can use the Continual Service Improvement (CSI) approach.

It's also important to limit the number of practices that are implemented, because too many new practices can disrupt design activities and lead to failure.

Design activities that use formal project management methods are often the responsibility of project managers. However, some project managers don't possess adequate skills to oversee this responsibility, especially if projects have larger scope and significant change requirements.

To assist project management within the organization, design coordination can integrate the practices, documents, procedures, and deliverables needed for successful design into the overall project management methodology.



Question

What are some of the key policies and principles of the design coordination?

Options:
1.Addresses all aspects of utility, warranty, and the needs of the Service Lifecycle
2.Builds current practices and uses the steps of the CSI
3.Complies with governance and regulatory standards in all design activities
4.Has criteria for resolving resource conflicts
5.Physically communicates and markets design activities
6.Produces unorthodox cost models
7.Implements new organization practices simultaneously

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Balance is a key principle of design coordination. It ensures that aspects like utility, warranty, and the needs of the service are met throughout its lifecycle.

Option 2: Correct. A principle of design coordination is to build on existing practices and steps, following the CSI approach.

Option 3: Correct. Design coordination should comply with governance and regulatory policies to ensure that rules and laws are upheld while carrying out activities.

Option 4: Correct. The design coordination process has a policy in place to ensure that there are criteria for resolving conflicts over resources in a timely fashion. This ensures that projects run smoothly.

Option 5: Incorrect. Design coordination simply produces communication and marketing plans – it does not carry out the activities.

Option 6: Incorrect. A policy of the design coordination process is to produce cost models that are standard – making them easier to understand.

Option 7: Incorrect. Organizations should take care not to implement too many practices at once, as this may disrupt design activities.

Correct answer(s):

1. Addresses all aspects of utility, warranty, and the needs of the Service Lifecycle
2. Builds current practices and uses the steps of the CSI
3. Complies with governance and regulatory standards in all design activities
4. Has criteria for resolving resource conflicts

The Service Design Stage involves activities that are managed by the design coordination process.

These activities include
• collecting, analyzing and engineering business, service provider, and technical requirements to ensure clear documentation, agreement, and alignment 
• designing service solutions, technology, processes, information, and metrics 
• producing and maintaining IT policies and design documents, and 
• reviewing and revising the design and maintenance of processes design documents 

Other activities include
• planning deployment and implementation of IT strategies using roadmaps, programs, and project plans 
• assessing and managing risk of all design processes and deliverables 
• ensuring alignment with all corporate and IT strategies and policies, and 
• producing service designs and SDPs for new or changed IT services 

Design coordination activities fall into two categories. The first category relates to the overall Service Design stage.
1. Define and maintain policies and methodsDefining and maintaining Service Design policies and methods produces consistent and accurate designs that meet the required business outcomes. Design coordination works collaboratively with all other Service Design processes to ensure a common framework of standard reusable processes, procedures, and systems to improve the effectiveness of the overall Service Design.

This includes agreeing on, using and managing the quality criteria, requirements, interfaces and hand-off points between the Service Design stage and other stages. The level of design coordination needed for different types of projects should also be defined. A set of architectural documents and principles for the design of service solutions and SDPs must also be maintained and revised by the design coordination process. 
2. Plan design resources and capabilitiesPlanning design resources and capabilities for new or changed services and SDPs is another activity. To do this, the design coordination process obtains information on the various activities in the Service Portfolio and Change Management process by communicating with business relationship managers and service owners.

Design coordination also identifies and addresses gaps in current capabilities by working with management and the leaders of the various functional units. Gaps may be addressed by providing training to staff, hiring new staff, automating design activities, enforcing requirements and standards, creating or improving procedures and capabilities, and developing knowledge and making it accessible. 
3. Coordinate design activitiesAnother activity includes coordinating design activities across projects and Change Management activities, including coordinating schedules, resources, and conflicts, and suppliers and support teams where required. To be effective, all aspects of design should be integrated rather than designing them in isolation. This produces an integrated enterprise architecture that consists of a set of standards, designs and architectures that satisfy all management, operational, and functional requirements of the business.

To achieve an integrated design, the design coordination process needs to ensure good communication between design activities and parties concerned, that appropriate business and IT plans are available to designers, and that architectural documents, service models, service solution designs, and SDPs conform to architectural, governance, and other requirements. Lastly, there should be good communication and coordination with Service Transition processes to ensure proper handover. 
4. Manage design risks and issuesManaging design risks and issues by reducing them using risk assessment and management techniques is another activity. This activity monitors risks that occur in all design efforts as well as ones that occur in individual projects and change activities. 
5. Improve Service DesignAnother activity is improving Service Design by ensuring that the Service Design stage's goals and objectives are achieved. This is accomplished by monitoring and measuring the Service Design stage's performance and then identifying improvement opportunities based on objective information. To do this, the CSI approach can be used for continual process improvement where ideas can be entered into the CSI register. Later, if accepted, these ideas can be added to service improvement plans (SIPs). 

The second category that design coordination activities fall into relates to individual design activities.
1. Plan individual designsThe first activity is planning individual designs using standards and templates that have already been created and tested. Design activities must ensure that the full design or SDP delivers the required business outcomes. This not only includes the IT service itself, but also the costs and schedules associated with the service. Design activities should therefore consider the functionality, warranty, the service's effectiveness, and the requirements to operate, maintain, and support the service. 
2. Coordinate individual designsThe second activity is coordinating the individual designs that will more than likely be carried out by a project manager who can draw upon the body of experience developed by the process from other designs. It's possible that as the Service Design stage progresses, some information may require strategic decisions to be revisited, such as the Service Portfolio Management process and other processes.

Throughout the design activity, all requirements of service, business, and project change management should be adhered to and documented. Close attention must also be paid to scheduling both the service provider and customer resources to ensure accurate and complete designs. 
3. Monitor individual designsMonitoring individual designs to ensure that the proper methods are followed and ensuring that there are no conflicts with other design efforts is the third activity. This ensures design milestones are met, and comprehensive designs that support the achievement of the required business outcomes are developed. 
4. Review designsThe final step is reviewing designs to ensure they comply with standards and conventions, and that SDP requirements have been completed. Completed SDPs can be handed over for service transition. All issues should be documented and a decision made on whether the issues should be addressed during the Service Design or Service Transition stages. 



Question

Sequence the overall activities in the design coordination process.

Options:
A.Working on a common framework to improve the overall Service Design
B.Gathering information on activities in the Service Portfolio and Change Management process
C.Managing schedules, conflicts, and suppliers across all projects and changes
D.Using risk assessment and management techniques
E.Monitoring and measuring the performance of the Service Design stage

Answer

Correct answer(s):
Working on a common framework to improve the overall Service Design is ranked The first activity is to define and maintain policies and methods. To do this, you work in collaboration with the other processes within Service Design to ensure improvement of the overall Service Design.Gathering information on activities in the Service Portfolio and Change Management process is ranked The second activity is to plan design resources and capabilities by receiving information about the Service Portfolio and Change Management activities from business relationship managers and service owners.Managing schedules, conflicts, and suppliers across all projects and changes is ranked The third activity is to coordinate design activities – this includes coordinating and integrating schedules, resources, conflicts, and suppliers and support teams across the different activities taking place in Service Design.Using risk assessment and management techniques is ranked The fourth activity is to manage design risks and issues. This can be done using risk assessment and management techniques.Monitoring and measuring the performance of the Service Design stage is ranked The fifth activity is to improve the Service Design by ensuring that the goals and objectives of the Service Design stage are met.


Question

Sequence the order of the individual design activities in the design coordination process.

Options:
A.Ensuring the SDP delivers the desired business outcomes
B.Revisiting strategic decisions such as the Service Portfolio Management process
C.Ensuring that design milestones and business outcomes are met
D.Ensuring designs comply with standards and conventions

Answer

Correct answer(s):
Ensuring the SDP delivers the desired business outcomes is ranked The first activity is to plan individual designs using pre-developed standards and templates and taking the functionality, warranty, effectiveness, and requirements into consideration.Revisiting strategic decisions such as the Service Portfolio Management process is ranked The second activity is to coordinate the individual designs that project managers will carry out. The project manager will revisit strategic decisions such as the Service Portfolio Management process.Ensuring that design milestones and business outcomes are met is ranked The third activity is to monitor individual designs to ensure the right methods are used and there are no conflicts. It also ensures milestones are reached and that the designs support the intended business outcomes.Ensuring designs comply with standards and conventions is ranked The fourth activity is to review designs and verify that designs comply with standards and conventions, and that completed SDPs are handed over to Service Transition.
3. Challenges and risks

The design coordination process can be triggered by various things such as requests for change, the need to create new programs and projects, and the revision of the overall IT strategy.

Once triggered, design coordination obtains information from inputs such as
• change requests and records, and service charters 
• business and IT strategies 
• business impact analyses 
• Service Portfolios, Service Catalogs, and business requirements, and 
• governance, corporate, legal, and regulatory policies and requirements 

Other inputs include
• program, project, and change schedules 
• Configuration Management Systems (CMSs) and other management systems 
• enterprise architectures, and 
• measurement and metrics methods, and feedback from other processes 

The various design coordination process inputs produce outputs – for example, a set of service designs and SDPs, updates to change records, and enterprise architectures.

The inputs can also include revised management systems, processes, and measurement and metrics methods.

The design coordination process within the Service Design stage interfaces with other stages of the Service Lifecycle and their processes, including the Service Strategy and the Service Transition stages.

The Service Strategy stage uses information within the IT strategy and Service Portfolio, while the Service Transition stage involves handing over the design of the service solutions within the SDP.

The design coordination process interfaces with many other processes.
Change ManagementChange Management produces change requests and then interacts with the design coordination process by communicating what modifications the requests require - depending if it's within design coordination's scope. Change Management then authorizes and ensures the changes are carried out. Feedback is then provided, in the form of Post Implementation Reviews (PIRs), stating areas that the design coordination process needs to improve. 
Business Relationship ManagementBusiness Relationship Management interacts with the design coordination process by supplying it with information about desired business outcomes, and customer needs and priorities. It also acts as an interface between customers and the design coordination process. 
Service Level ManagementService Level Management (SLM), along with the design coordination, defines the service level requirements for new or changed services. It focuses mainly on the warranty levels that the solution design and design coordination activities require. This ensures the service solution design and SDP are appropriately addressed. 

The design coordination process interfaces with several other processes:
• Service Portfolio Management 
• Financial Management for IT services 
• Transition Planning and Support 
• Strategy Management for IT services 
• Supplier, Release, and Deployment Management 
• Service Validation and Testing, and 
• Availability, Capacity, IT Service Continuity, and Information Security Management processes 

The design coordination process has certain challenges that need to be closely monitored.

One of the major challenges is trying to maintain consistent quality across the Service Design stage, as a result of the work being carried out by different individuals, such as process owners, managers, and project managers.

The design coordination process also has to develop standards and practices and integrate them into the organization's project management methodology to ensure high-quality consistency.

Another challenge is ensuring that enough time and resources are allocated to activities and that individuals and groups are assigned the appropriate responsibilities to complete the job.

For example, design coordination activities might be assigned to a project manager, and key contributions may be handled by Service Design managers.

Lastly, the design coordination process should ensure that there is a balance in bureaucracy and autonomy.

For example, if there's too little bureaucracy, the designs may become inconsistent and fail to meet business outcome requirements.

If there's too much bureaucracy employees may spend too much time ensuring they follow and abide by processes and policies instead of doing their actual work.

The design coordination process also faces potential risks, such as
• a potential lack of skills and knowledge 
• a reluctance of business involvement 
• inadequate direction and strategy 
• insufficient information on business priorities and impacts, and 
• poorly defined requirements and desired outcomes 

Other risks that the design coordination process may face include
• project managers who communicate poorly or refuse to involve themselves in activities 
• relevant stakeholders like customers, users, and support and other operations staff refusing involvement 
• other Service Lifecycle stages not interacting or offering input into the design coordination process, and 
• poor designs that require more changes later due to efforts to try and save time and money 



Question

What are some of the risks and challenges that the design coordination process faces?

Options:
1.A risk is a lack of skills and knowledge
2.A risk is an inappropriate direction and strategy
3.A risk is insufficient interaction between the design coordination and other processes in the Service Lifecycle
4.A challenge is ensuring a fair balance of bureaucracy with autonomy
5.A challenge is getting other stages in the lifecycle to develop standards and practices
6.A risk is stakeholders becoming too involved
7.A challenge is randomly assigning roles and responsibilities to staff

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The design coordination process requires that all employees have the required knowledge and skills to perform the design activities.

Option 2: Correct. If the design coordination process has the wrong strategy in place and gives the wrong direction, it's likely that the project will fail to meet the desired business outcomes.

Option 3: Correct. A risk is that activities aren't managed in an appropriate way that allow for proper interaction between processes in the Service Lifecycle.

Option 4: Correct. One of the challenges of the design coordination process is ensuring there's enough bureaucracy so designs are consistent and meet business outcome requirements. Bureaucratic requirements should not be so much that employees spend more time following processes and policies than completing tasks.

Option 5: Incorrect. The design coordination process has to develop standards and practices, and integrate them into project management methodology to ensure consistency.

Option 6: Incorrect. One of the risks of the design coordination process is that stakeholders, such as customers, will refuse to show involvement in the process.

Option 7: Incorrect. The design coordination process has to ensure that the appropriate roles and responsibilities are assigned to the correct individuals or groups in order to get the job done.

Correct answer(s):

1. A risk is a lack of skills and knowledge
2. A risk is an inappropriate direction and strategy
3. A risk is insufficient interaction between the design coordination and other processes in the Service Lifecycle
4. A challenge is ensuring a fair balance of bureaucracy with autonomy

4. Summary

The scope of design coordination consists of activities such as assisting and supporting projects and Change Management activities, maintaining policies, resources, and capabilities, and producing and handing over SDPs to Service Transition. It excludes activities and processes outside the Service Design stage.

Design coordination activities can be overall activities, include defining and maintaining policies and methods, planning design resources and capabilities, and coordinating design activities. Individual design coordination activities include planning and coordinating individual designs, and reviewing designs.

The design coordination process includes challenges such as maintaining high-quality designs and SDPs, allocating time, resources, roles, and responsibilities, and ensuring that policies are not overly bureaucratic. Risks to design coordination include a lack of skills or knowledge, a reluctance for involvement from businesses, stakeholders, and staff, inadequate direction, strategy, and information, and poorly defined requirements.

Back to top
 

Service Catalog and Availability Management
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize the characteristics of the Service Catalog
•recognize which Availability Management formula to use in given scenarios 
•recognize the responsibilities of the Service Catalog manager and the availability manager
 
1. Characteristics of the Service Catalog

The Service Catalog is produced and maintained by the Service Catalog Management process, which is one of the Service Design processes.

The objective of Service Catalog Management is to ensure that there is a central, accurate, and consistent source of data about all operational services and about all services being transitioned to the live environment.

The Service Catalog is an important part of the overall Service Portfolio. It provides a key, customer-facing view of the services on offer. 

The Service Catalog establishes the value and potential that customers can expect from an IT service provider.

A newly created Service Catalog characteristically consists of either a matrix, a table, or a spreadsheet.

The Service Catalog should contain details of all services that are currently provided and of services being prepared for transition to the live environment.

Once a service has the chartered status – indicating that it's being developed for use by customers – Service Design produces the specifications for the service. It is at this point that the service should be added to the Service Catalog.

The Service Catalog should summarize the characteristics of the service, and contain details of its customers and maintainers.

The Service Catalog has two aspects:
the Business Service Catalog, andThe Business Service Catalog contains details of all the IT services delivered to customers, including the relationships of the services to business units and details of the business processes that depend on the services. This is the customer view of the Service Catalog.
the Technical Service CatalogFor each IT service, the Technical Service Catalog details relationships to the supporting services, shared services, elements, and Configuration Items (CIs) necessary to provide the service to the organization. The Technical Service Catalog should support the Business Service Catalog, and is not a part of the customer view of the Service Catalog.



Question

Identify characteristics of the Service Catalog.

Options:
1.It contains details of services only once they have been chartered
2.It describes the characteristics of each service, as well as each service's customers
3.It contains details only of operational services
4.It is available only to employees of the service provider
5.It's the part of the Service Portfolio that establishes the value of services for customers
6.It includes a catalog that's available to customers and a supporting, technical catalog

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The Service Catalog contains details only of services that are already operational or that are being prepared for transition to the live environment. It focuses on services developed for use by customers.

Option 2: Correct. The Service Catalog should include business-related and technical details of each service developed for use by customers, and details of the customers and maintainers of the services.

Option 3: Incorrect. The Service Catalog should contain details of all services currently being prepared for transition to the live environment, and of all services that are already operational.

Option 4: Incorrect. The Business Service Catalog – which is one aspect of the Service Catalog – is available to customers. It identifies the value and potential of each service in terms of customers' business needs.

Option 5: Correct. The Service Catalog identifies all services developed for use by customers and describes these services in terms of their value and potential for customers. It identifies business units and details of the business processes that depend on the services.

Option 6: Correct. The Service Catalog includes the Business Service Catalog, which is visible to customers and describes all available services. It also includes the Technical Service Catalog, which provides supporting information for each service and isn't provided to customers.

Correct answer(s):

1. It contains details of services only once they have been chartered
2. It describes the characteristics of each service, as well as each service's customers
5. It's the part of the Service Portfolio that establishes the value of services for customers
6. It includes a catalog that's available to customers and a supporting, technical catalog



Question

Which statement accurately describes the objective of Service Catalog Management?

Options:
1.To provide a central, accurate source of data about all services your organization delivers to customers
2.To gather information from the Service Catalog and disperse it to customers
3.To provide central, accurate service requirements for inclusion in the Service Catalog

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The objective of Service Catalog Management is to provide a central, accurate, and consistent source of data about all operational services and about all services being transitioned to the live environment. This involves producing and managing the Service Catalog.

Option 2: Incorrect. Service Catalog Management involves producing and maintaining the Service Catalog – including the Business Service Catalog, which is available to customers. However, it doesn't involve actually distributing the data in the Service Catalog to customers.

Option 3: Incorrect. The Service Level Management process – rather than Service Catalog Management – involves identifying service requirements. Service Catalog Management focuses on producing and managing the Service Catalog, which contains details of all operational services and services due to be transitioned to the live environment.

Correct answer(s):

1. To provide a central, accurate source of data about all services your organization delivers to customers

2. Availability Management

In Service Design, the Availability Management process focuses on ensuring that all operational services meet the agreed availability targets.

It is also responsible for ensuring that new or changed services are designed in such a way as to meet their intended targets, without compromising the performance of other services.

These are the objectives of the Availability Management process:
• to produce and maintain an appropriate and up-to-date Availability Plan that accurately reflects current and future needs of the organization 
• to offer advice and guidance to all other areas of the organization and IT on availability-related issues 
• to ensure that availability achievements meet or exceed targets 
• to assist with the diagnosis and resolution of availability-related incidents and problems 
• to evaluate the influence of any changes on the Availability Plan and on the performance and capacity of all services and resources, and 
• to ensure that all cost-effective measures to improve the availability of services are implemented 



Question

Identify some of the important objectives of the Availability Management process.

Options:
1.To ensure that service availability meets or exceeds targets
2.To provide a single, consistent source of information about all available services
3.To ensure that all cost-effective measures for improving the availability of services are implemented 
4.To produce and maintain a plan that accurately portrays the past and current availability needs of the organization

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The Availability Management process aims to ensure that all operational services meet the desired availability targets and that new or changed services are designed in such a way as to meet their intended targets.

Option 2: Incorrect. Providing a single, consistent source of information about all available services is the aim of Service Catalog Management, rather than of Availability Management.

Option 3: Correct. As well as ensuring that all services meet their agreed targets without compromising the performance of other services, Availability Management aims to ensure that the availability of services is continually improved. 

Option 4: Incorrect. The Availability Management process aims to produce and maintain an up-to-date, appropriate Availability Plan that accurately portrays the current and future needs of the organization.

Correct answer(s):

1. To ensure that service availability meets or exceeds targets
3. To ensure that all cost-effective measures for improving the availability of services are implemented 

The success of the Availability Management process relies on the measurement, monitoring, analysis, and reporting of three aspects of a service:
availabilityThe availability of a service refers to the ability of a service to fulfill its agreed purpose at the correct time. Service availability is usually measured as a percentage.
reliability, andThe reliability of a service refers to the duration for which it can perform its function without interruption.
maintainabilityThe maintainability of a service refers to how quickly and effectively the service returns to normal after a failure.

The Availability Management process incorporates two main elements, namely reactive activities and proactive activities.

Reactive activities involve actions such as monitoring, measuring, analyzing and managing all occurrences and problems regarding unavailability. These activities are primarily related to operational roles.

Proactive activities refer to the planning, design and improvement of availability that is carried out proactively. These activities are predominantly concerned with the roles of planning and designing.

The Availability Management process focuses on both overall service availability and component availability.

If components aren't readily available, this will impact the overall service that incorporates them. So it's important to manage component availability to ensure that service availability and unavailability can be managed effectively.

As well as managing service and component availability, the Availability Management process focuses on serviceability. This refers to the ability of a third-party supplier to meet the terms and conditions of a contract.

Contract terms may include agreed reliability, maintainability, and availability levels for both services and their supporting components.

To measure the availability of a service, you can subtract the amount of downtime from the Agreed Service Time (AST), divide the result by the AST, and then multiply this number by 100 to obtain a percentage.

Suppose your IT organization provides an antivirus software service. The service has an AST of 8,760 hours per year. In the course of a year, the service has had four hours of downtime.

To calculate the availability of the service, you subtract 4 from 8,760, divide the result by 8,760, and then multiply by 100. This gives the service an availability of 99.95%.

The reliability of a service can be measured in either of these units:
• Mean Time Between Service Incidents (MTBSI), or 
• Mean Time Between Failures (MTBF) 

To calculate the reliability of a service in MTBSI, you divide the available time in hours by the number of breaks in service availability.

For example, your organization's antivirus software has 8,760 hours of time available. A total of four breaks have occurred.

To calculate the reliability of this service in MTBSI, you divide 8,760 by 4. This gives you a reliability of 2,190 hours MTBSI.

To calculate the reliability of a service in MTBF, you subtract the total downtime in hours from the available time in hours, and divide the result by the number of breaks.

Say the antivirus service had four hours downtime within the available time of 8,760 hours, and a total of four breaks.

To calculate the reliability of the antivirus service in MTBF, you subtract 4 from 8,760 and divide the result by 4. This gives the service a reliability of 2,189 hours MTBF.

The maintainability of a service is usually measured in Mean Time to Restore Service (MTRS). You calculate the MTRS for a service by dividing the total downtime in hours by the number of service breaks.

The antivirus service had four hours downtime and four breaks.

To calculate the maintainability of this service, you divide 4 by 4 – giving a maintainability value of one hour.



Question

Match each formula with what you use it to calculate.

Options:
A.Divide the available time in hours by the number of breaks
B.Subtract the total downtime in hours from the available time in hours, and divide the result by the number of breaks
C.Subtract the amount of downtime from the Agreed Service Time (AST), divide the result by the AST, and multiply by 100
D.Divide the total downtime in hours by the number of breaks

Targets:
1.The duration for which the service can perform its agreed function without interruption, based on the mean time between service incidents
2.The duration for which the service can perform its agreed function without interruption, based on the mean time between failures
3.The ability of the service to fulfill its agreed purpose when it is required
4.How quickly and effectively the service returns to normal after failures

Answer

The duration for which the service can perform its agreed function without interruption identifies the service's reliability. To calculate reliability using Mean Time Between Service Incidents (MTBSI), you divide the available time in hours by the number of breaks in service.

The reliability of a service is the duration for which it can perform its agreed function without interruption. To calculate service reliability using Mean Time Between Failures (MTBF), you subtract the total downtime in hours from the available time in hours, and divide the result by the number of breaks.

The ability of a service to fulfill its agreed purpose when required is the service's availability. To calculate availability, you subtract the amount of downtime from the Agreed Service Time (AST) for the service, divide the result by the AST, and multiply by 100 to obtain a percentage.

The maintainability of a service is the speed and effectiveness at which it returns to normal after a failure. You calculate maintainability by dividing the total downtime in hours by the number of breaks in the service.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

3. Service Catalog manager

The quality of the Service Catalog and Availability Management processes depends greatly on the role played by the respective managers.

It is typically the responsibility of the Service Catalog manager to produce and maintain the Service Catalog.

The duties of the Service Catalog manager are to ensure that
• all relevant services are recorded in the Service Catalog 
• the information in the Service Catalog is accurate and up-to-date 
• the information in the Service Catalog is consistent with that of the Service Portfolio, and 
• the information in the Service Catalog is protected and backed up 

The availability manager is typically responsible for ensuring that all the specified aims of Availability Management are met.

The responsibilities of the availability manager include
• ensuring that all services deliver the levels of availability established in Service Level Agreements (SLAs) 
• ensuring that all new services are designed to deliver the levels of availability required by the organization 
• validating that final designs meet the minimum required levels of availability 
• assisting with the exploration and diagnosis of all incidents and problems that cause availability issues or unavailability of services or components 
• participating in IT infrastructure design, including establishing the availability requirements for hardware and software, and 
• establishing the reliability, maintainability, and serviceability requirements for supplied components 



Question

Match each process manager to the relevant responsibility. More than one responsibility may match to a process manager.

Options:
A.Service Catalog manager
B.Availability manager

Targets:
1.Ensures that the Service Catalog contains all relevant services
2.Ensures that the Service Catalog information reflects the information in the Service Portfolio
3.Establishes the reliability for supplied components

Answer

The Service Catalog manager ensures that relevant services are recorded in the Service Catalog.

The Service Catalog manager ensures that the information in the Service Catalog is consistent with that of the Service Portfolio.

The availability manager is responsible for making sure supplied components required for delivering IT services are reliable.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option A

Target 3 = Option B

4. Summary

The Service Catalog provides details of all operational services and all services being prepared for transition to the live environment. It includes a Business Service Catalog, which is visible to customers, and a Technology Service Catalog. The Service Catalog is produced and maintained through the Service Catalog Management process.

The Availability Management process aims to ensure that all services meet their agreed availability targets. This process relies on the measurement of the availability, reliability, and maintenance of each service.

The Service Catalog manager is responsible for producing and maintaining the Service Catalog, and the availability manager is responsible for ensuring that all the availability aims of Service Management are met.

Back to top
 

Measure Availability, Reliability, and Maintainability
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•calculate availability, reliability, and maintainability
 
1. Calculating availability, maintainability, and reliability

Back to top
 

Capacity Management and Supplier Management
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize the focus of Capacity Management subprocesses
•recognize the components of the Supplier and Contracts Database
•recognize the responsibilities of the capacity manager and the supplier manager
 
1. Capacity Management

Capacity Management is first supported in the Service Strategy stage. During this stage, capacity considerations affect Pattern of Business Activity (PBA), Line of Service (LOS), and Service Level Package (SLP) development.

Capacity Management is a process that extends throughout the Service Lifecycle. However, this process is an important consideration in the Service Design stage.

Capacity Management is responsible for ensuring that IT processes are planned and scheduled to provide a consistent level of performance that aligns with current and future business needs.

These are some of the objectives of Capacity Management:
• ensuring that cost-justifiable IT capacity aligns with agreed business needs in all areas of IT 
• providing a point of focus and management for all capacity and performance-related issues 
• producing and maintaining an appropriate and up-to-date capacity plan that portrays business needs, and 
• providing advice and guidance for all capacity and performance-related issues 

Additional aims of the Capacity Management process are to ensure that service performance achievements meet their agreed performance targets, and to assist with the diagnosis and resolution of performance and capacity-related incidents and problems.

Capacity Management strives to measure the effect that any change has on the capacity plan, and on the performance and capacity of all services and resources. It also ensures that deliberate measures to improve the performance of services are implemented as long as its costs can be justified.

A capacity plan records levels of utilization of resources as well as performance of service. Once the service strategy and plans have been reviewed, the capacity plan can then also be used to anticipate future requirements for IT resources. The plans should include any proposals that have been measured in relation to required resource, cost, benefits and impact.

A capacity plan typically consists of current services, technology and resources, the levels of capacity within an organization and any identified problems relating to over-or-under capacity. It also includes the extent to which service levels are reached and any changes since the last copy of the plan.



Question

What are some of the objectives of Capacity Management?

Options:
1.To measure the effect that a change has on the capacity plan, and the performance and capacity of all services and resources
2.To provide a point of focus and management for all capacity and performance-related issues
3.To ensure that IT capacity is continually increased in every possible way
4.To produce and maintain a capacity plan that reflects the needs of the customer
5.To manage the improvement of service performance

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Capacity Management aims to measure the effect that any change has on the capacity plan, and on the performance and capacity of all services and resources.

Option 2: Correct. Capacity Management aims to ensure that IT processes are planned and scheduled to provide a consistent level of performance that aligns with current and future business needs. It provides a point of focus for managing service capacity and performance-related issues and problems.

Option 3: Incorrect. Capacity Management aims to ensure that cost-justifiable IT capacity, that aligns with agreed business needs, is present in all areas of IT.

Option 4: Incorrect. Capacity Management aims to produce and maintain a capacity plan that depicts the current and future needs of the business.

Option 5: Correct. Capacity Management ensures that deliberate measures to improve the performance of services are implemented, and ensures that IT capacity aligns with business needs.

Correct answer(s):

1. To measure the effect that a change has on the capacity plan, and the performance and capacity of all services and resources
2. To provide a point of focus and management for all capacity and performance-related issues
5. To manage the improvement of service performance

Capacity Management relies on a delicate balance of
costs against resource needsCapacity Management needs to balance cost against resource needs. Any purchased processing capacity should be cost-justifiable in terms of business needs, and resources should be put to use most efficiently.
supply against demandCapacity Management needs to ensure a balance between supply and demand for IT capacity. The available supply of IT processing power should match current and future business demands. It may be necessary to manage or influence the demand for a particular resource.

Capacity Management can be a very technical, complex, and demanding process. In order for this process to succeed in reaching its objectives, three supporting subprocesses are needed.

These subprocesses are
1. Business Capacity Management 
2. Service Capacity Management, and 
3. Component Capacity Management 

Business Capacity Management turns business needs and plans into requirements for service and IT infrastructure. This ensures that future business requirements for IT services are quantified, designed, planned, and implemented in a timely fashion.

Future requirements come from the detail of new processes and service requirements, changes, improvements, and growth in the existing services outlined in the Service Strategy and Service Portfolio.

Future requirements can be forecasted, modeled, trended, or predicted by using existing data on the current resource utilization of various services and resources.

Service Capacity Management aims to manage, control, and predict the end-to-end performance and capacity of operational IT service usage and workloads.

It also ensures that the performance of all services is monitored and measured, and that the collected data is recorded, analyzed, and reported. Automated thresholds are used where possible to identify breached or threatened Service Level Agreements (SLAs).

When necessary, employees with knowledge of technology used in the delivery of end-to-end IT service should perform proactive and reactive actions to ensure that service performance meets the agreed targets.

Component Capacity Management focuses on the management, control, and prediction of the performance, utilization, and capacity of IT technology components.

It ensures that the components of the IT infrastructure that have limited resources are monitored and measured. Collected data from these components should be recorded, analyzed, and reported.

Here too, automated thresholds should be used to manage all components. This ensures the speedy identification of breached or threatened component usage or performance so that cost-effective solutions can be implemented.



Question

Match each subprocess to the Capacity Management element it focuses on.

Options:
A.Business Capacity Management
B.Service Capacity Management
C.Component Capacity Management

Targets:
1.Business needs and plans are turned into requirements for service and IT infrastructure
2.Performance of all services is monitored and measured, and data is recorded, analyzed, and reported
3.IT infrastructure components with limited resources are monitored and measured

Answer

The Business Capacity Management subprocess aims to ensure that future business requirements for IT services are quantified, designed, planned, and implemented in a timely fashion.

Service Capacity Management aims to manage, control, and predict the end-to-end performance and capacity of operational IT service usage and workloads.

Component Capacity Management concentrates on the management, control, and prediction of the performance, utilization, and capacity of IT technology components.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

2. Supplier Management

In Service Design, the Supplier Management process aims to ensure that suppliers meet the terms, conditions, and targets of their contracts and agreements. It's also implemented as a means to attain a higher value for money from suppliers and the services they offer.

The Supplier Management process is driven by a supplier strategy and policy identified during the Service Strategy stage. The consistent and effective implementation of Supplier Management depends on the establishment of a Supplier and Contract Database (SCD), as well as on clearly defined roles and responsibilities.

The SCD should record all supplier and contract details, including the types of services or products provided by each supplier.

It then serves as a comprehensive reference for use across all Supplier Management procedures and activities.

A comprehensive SCD provides information in the areas of
• supplier categorization 
• establishment of new suppliers, their assessment, and the establishment of associated contracts 
• contract renewal and termination, and 
• management of supplier and contract performance 

Supplier Management aims to manage all suppliers and contracts needed to support the provision of IT services.

Its objectives are to
• secure good value for money from suppliers and contracts 
• align contracts with suppliers to business needs and targets 
• manage relationships with suppliers 
• manage supplier performance, and 
• maintain the organization's supplier policy and supporting SCD 

The Supplier Management process aims to negotiate and agree on contracts with suppliers and to manage these contracts through their lifecycles.



Question

Identify some of the objectives of the Supplier Management process.

Options:
1.Getting good value for money from suppliers and contracts
2.Negotiating contracts with suppliers and managing these contracts through their lifecycles
3.Creating and maintaining a supplier strategy
4.Establishing business needs and targets

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The Supplier Management process aims to optimize the value of suppliers and contracts used to support the provision of IT services.

Option 2: Correct. The Supplier Management process aims to manage all suppliers and contracts needed to support the provision of IT services. This involves negotiating contracts and managing them throughout their lifecycles.

Option 3: Incorrect. The Supplier Management process is driven by the supplier strategy and policy provided by the Service Strategy. It doesn't involve developing a new or separate supplier strategy.

Option 4: Incorrect. Supplier Management strives to ensure that underlying contracts with suppliers align to business needs and targets – it does not establish these needs and targets.

Correct answer(s):

1. Getting good value for money from suppliers and contracts
2. Negotiating contracts with suppliers and managing these contracts through their lifecycles

The contracts managed by the Supplier Management process are – like all contracts – legally-binding agreements between two or more parties.

A formal contract should be used when an organization has external supply arrangements that make a significant contribution to the delivery and development of the business. This type of contract is also used for high-value and strategic relationships.

The elements of a basic contract include
basic terms and conditionsThe basic terms and conditions of a contract outline the duration of the contract, the parties and locations involved, and the scope of the contract, as well as definitions and the commercial basis of the contract.
service description and scopeThe service description and scope section of the contract details the functionality of the provided services and the extent of the agreement. It also considers all constraints – such as performance, availability, capacity, technical interface, and security constraints – on service delivery. Service functionality may be explicitly defined, or – in the case of well-established services – included by reference to other established documents like the Service Portfolio or the Service Catalog.
service standards, andThe service standards outlined in a contract define the minimum acceptable standards and service measures regarding performance and quality.
management informationManagement information is all the information about operational performance that must be reported by the supplier. Management information should concentrate on the most important – or headline – reporting measures on which the relationship will be assessed. Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and balanced scorecards may form the core of reported performance information.

A basic contract contains workload ranges, which are the volume limits within which service standards apply or for which specific pricing rules apply.

The responsibilities and dependencies described in the contract depict the obligations of the organization and the supplier regarding communication, contacts, and escalation.

The service levels outlined in the contract must be realistic, measurable, and aligned to the organization's needs. The contract should also support the targets agreed on in Service Level Requirements (SLRs) and SLAs.

Maintaining the SCD forms an integral part of the Supplier Management process.

Supplier Management is responsible for recording all supplier and contract details, as well as details of the type of service or product provided by each supplier, in the SCD. It is also responsible for recording the relationships of contracted services or components with other associated Configuration Items (CIs).

The SCD assists with the following integral Supplier Management activities:
• categorization of suppliers 
• evaluation and setup of new suppliers and contracts 
• establishment of new suppliers 
• management of supplier and contract performance, and 
• contract renewal and termination 



Question

The Supplier Management process is responsible for maintaining the SCD, which in turn supports several activities in the process.

What should the SCD contain?

Options:
1.All supplier and contract details
2.Details of an SLA
3.The relationships of contracted services or components to other service elements
4.Details of the types of service and products provided to customers

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The SCD should contain all supplier and contract details, including details of the type of service or product provided by each supplier. The Supplier Management process uses this information to categorize and manage suppliers and contracts.

Option 2: Incorrect. An SLA is an agreement between the IT service provider and the customer. It is not contained in the SCD, which contains information for managing suppliers and contracts.

Option 3: Correct. In addition to recording the details of suppliers and contracts, the SCD should record the relationships of contracted services or components with other associated CIs.

Option 4: Incorrect. The SCD contains the details of the types of services and products provided by suppliers. It does not contain any information about customers.

Correct answer(s):

1. All supplier and contract details
3. The relationships of contracted services or components to other service elements

3. Supplier and capacity managers

The Capacity and Supplier Management processes are the responsibility of the capacity manager and supplier manager respectively.

The responsibilities of the capacity manager include
• identifying capacity requirements with the service level manager 
• understanding the existing use of IT infrastructure and services, as well as the maximum capacity of each component 
• performing sizing on all suggested new services and systems to determine capacity requirements, and 
• predicting future capacity requirements 

Other responsibilities of the capacity manager include ensuring that there is adequate IT capacity to meet required levels of service, that senior IT management is appropriately guided on how to match capacity and demand, and that the use of existing capacity is optimized.

The capacity manager is also responsible for the production, regular review, and revision of the capacity plan, and for identifying current usage and predicted requirements during the period covered by the plan.

The supplier manager is responsible for ensuring that all the objectives of the Supplier Management process are met.

The responsibilities of the supplier manager include
• supporting the development and review of SLAs, contracts, agreements, and any other documents for third-party suppliers 
• ensuring good value for money from all IT suppliers and contracts 
• ensuring that all IT supplier processes are consistent and interface with supplier strategies, processes, and standard terms and conditions 
• maintaining and reviewing the SCD 
• regularly performing a review and risk analysis of all suppliers and contracts, and 
• ensuring that any supporting contracts, agreements, or SLAs developed align with those of the organization 



Question

Match each responsibility to the appropriate manager. More than one responsibility may match to one manager.

Options:
A.Understanding the existing use of IT services
B.Performing sizing on all suggested new services
C.Ensuring good value for money from contracts
D.Performing a review and risk analysis of existing contracts

Targets:
1.Capacity manager
2.Supplier manager

Answer

The capacity manager is responsible for analyzing the way in which existing IT services are being utilized, and performing sizing analysis on suggested services to determine capacity requirements.

The supplier manager is responsible for ensuring that good value is obtained for the organization from its suppliers and through its contracts. The supplier manager is also responsible for regularly performing risk analyses of suppliers and contracts.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A, Option B

Target 2 = Option C, Option D

4. Summary

Capacity Management is the process that includes planning and scheduling IT processes to provide a level of performance that aligns with business needs. This process depends on balancing costs against resources needed and supply against demand. Capacity Management consists of three subprocesses – Business Capacity Management, Service Capacity Management, and Component Capacity Management.

Supplier Management is the process that includes ensuring that suppliers meet the terms, conditions, and targets of contracts and that the greatest value for money is attained from suppliers and contracts. Supplier Management activities are supported by the information recorded in the SCD.

The capacity and supplier managers are respectively responsible for the different tasks involved in the Capacity Management and Supplier Management processes.

Back to top
 

Information Security Management and ITSCM
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize the components of the ISM and the objectives of the ISMS elements
•sequence the stages of ITSCM Lifecycle
•recognize the responsibilities of the security manager and the IT service continuity manager
 
1. Information Security Management

In Service Design, Information Security Management (ISM) provides the focus for all aspects of IT security. It involves management activity within the corporate governance framework. It provides strategic direction for security activities and ensures that all objectives are achieved.

It also ensures that information security risks are managed appropriately and that enterprise information resources are responsibly used.

The objectives of ISM are to
ensure that agreed levels of service availability are supportedISM aims to ensure that agreed levels of service availability are supported. It helps do this by ensuring that usable information is provided when required, and that the providing systems can resist relevant attacks and recover from or prevent failures.
protect the confidentiality of data and systemsISM aims to protect the confidentiality of data and systems. This is accomplished by ensuring that information is disclosed only to those people who have a right to see and use it.
protect the integrity of information, andISM aims to protect the integrity of information. It helps do this by ensuring that information is complete, accurate, and protected from unauthorized modification.
ensure authenticity and nonrepudiation of transactions and informationISM aims to ensure the authenticity and nonrepudiation of all business transactions and information trades between enterprises or with partners, to ensure that the organization is deemed trustworthy.



Question

What are the objectives of the ISM process?

Options:
1.To protect provided information from unauthorized modification
2.To disclose information only to those authorized
3.To ensure the authenticity of all business transactions and information trades
4.To achieve agreed service availability levels
5.To verify service details before they're included in the Service Catalog
6.To develop information security technology

Answer

Option 1: Correct. ISM strives to ensure the integrity of information. This involves ensuring that information is complete, accurate, and protected from unauthorized modification.

Option 2: Correct. ISM aims to protect the confidentiality of information.

Option 3: Correct. ISM aims to ensure the trustworthiness of business transactions and information trades between enterprises or with partners. This involves ensuring the authenticity and nonrepudiation of the transactions.

Option 4: Correct. ISM aims to ensure that agreed service availability levels are achieved. This involves ensuring that needed information is provided on time and by preventing or recovering from failures.

Option 5: Incorrect. The Service Catalog Management process – rather than ISM – is responsible for producing and maintaining accurate information in the Service Catalog.

Option 6: Incorrect. The ISM process aims to ensure the availability, confidentiality, integrity, authenticity, and nonrepudiation of information. It is not responsible for the development of the information security technology used to meet these aims.

Correct answer(s):

1. To protect provided information from unauthorized modification
2. To disclose information only to those authorized
3. To ensure the authenticity of all business transactions and information trades
4. To achieve agreed service availability levels

It is important to have a comprehensive ISM policy because, to be effective, information security must align closely with business security and business needs.

The necessary security measures for monitoring and enforcing the ISM policy should also be in place.

Effective ISM entails managing security risks, monitoring processes to ensure compliance, and providing feedback on effectiveness. It should also include developing a communications strategy and providing any necessary training on security policies and measures.

An effective ISM process and framework should include the following components:
• an information security policy 
• an Information Security Management System (ISMS) 
• a comprehensive security strategy that aligns to business objectives, strategies, and plans 
• an effective security organizational structure 
• security controls to support the information security policy 
• monitoring processes aimed at ensuring compliance and providing feedback on efficacy 
• a communications strategy, and 
• a security training plan 

The information security policy should consider all elements of a security strategy, and must align with business needs. It may include several more specific security policies.

Because the information security policy defines the entire organization's attitude towards security matters, it should apply across the organization. The policies it includes must be appropriate and supported by senior management.

Some examples of what the information security policy may include are
• an overall policy for securing information 
• a policy defining the difference between appropriate and inappropriate use of IT assets 
• an access control policy 
• a password control policy, and 
• an e-mail policy 

The ISMS provides a system for creating a cost-effective information security program that aligns with business objectives.

It contains standards, management procedures, and guidelines that support the information security policy.

The ISMS consists of five main elements.
ControlThe control element of the ISMS aims to establish a management framework that can initiate and manage information security in the organization.

It aims to establish an organization structure capable of preparing, approving, and implementing the information security policy.

It also aims to allocate responsibilities and establish and control associated documentation.

PlanThe plan element of the ISMS aims to identify and create the appropriate security measures, based on knowledge of organizational needs.

To determine organizational security needs, you gather information from sources such as business and service risk assessments, plans, and strategies, Service Level Agreements (SLAs), and Operational Level Agreements (OLAs).

You also need to consider the legal, moral, and ethical responsibilities associated with information security, the amount of funding available, prevailing organization culture, and attitudes to security.

ImplementThe implement element of ISMS aims to implement the appropriate procedures, tools, and controls to underpin the information security policy.

This involves managing awareness and training in security needs, accounting for assets and classifying information, establishing personnel, physical, and system security, managing access rights, and implementing procedures for handling security incidents.

This element should also include a mechanism for ensuring continual improvement in ISM. 
EvaluateThe evaluate element of ISMS aims to supervise and check compliance with the information security policy. This involves performing regular audits of the technical security of IT systems, and providing required information to external auditors and regulators. 
MaintainThe maintain element of the ISMS strives to improve the implementation of security measures and controls, and specified security agreements. 

The outcomes of ISM that is properly implemented are
• strategic alignment between IT and the business 
• value delivery 
• improved risk management 
• improved performance management 
• improved resource management, and 
• business process assurance 



Question

Which of the following options are components of effective ISM?

Options:
1.An effective security organizational structure
2.An ISMS
3.A strategy to balance costs against resource requirements
4.A Service Catalog
5.An information security policy
6.A comprehensive security strategy
7.Security controls to support the information security policy

Answer

Option 1: Correct. It's important for an organization to have a good security organization structure in place to support ISM activities.

Option 2: Correct. The ISMS is the system used by ISM to provide a basis for the creation of a cost-effective information security program that aligns with business objectives.

Option 3: Incorrect. Balancing costs against resource requirements is a component of effective Capacity Management, not ISM.

Option 4: Incorrect. A Service Catalog is a component of Service Catalog Management, which is separate to ISM.

Option 5: Correct. ISM uses an information security policy and other specific security policies to effectively manage information security.

Option 6: Correct. An ISM framework consists of a comprehensive security strategy that aligns with business objectives, strategies, and plans.

Option 7: Correct. ISM uses a set of security controls to support the information security policy. Other components of an effective ISM are an information security policy, an ISMS, a comprehensive security strategy, and an effective security organizational structure.

Correct answer(s):

1. An effective security organizational structure
2. An ISMS
5. An information security policy
6. A comprehensive security strategy
7. Security controls to support the information security policy



Question

ISMS is the framework in which ISM performs its activities. It is comprised of five elements, each of which is associated with particular objectives.

Match each element to an appropriate objective.

Options:
A.Control
B.Plan
C.Implement
D.Evaluate
E.Maintain

Targets:
1.Establishing a management framework that can initiate and manage information security
2.Identifying and creating appropriate security measures
3.Facilitating the use of appropriate procedures, tools, and controls
4.Supervising and checking compliance with the information security policy
5.Improving the implementation of security measures and controls

Answer

The control element aims to establish an organization structure capable of preparing, approving, and implementing the information security policy.

The plan element aims to gather information from sources such as business and service risk assessments, plans, and strategies, SLAs and OLAs to determine organizational security needs.

The implement element aims to manage awareness and training in security needs, account for assets and classify information, establish personnel, physical, and system security, manage access rights, and implement procedures for handling security incidents.

The evaluate element aims to perform regular audits of the technical security of IT systems, and provide the required information to external auditors and regulators.

The maintain element aims to improve the implementation of security measures and controls, as well as the specified security agreements.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

Target 5 = Option E

2. IT Service Continuity Management

The IT Service Continuity Management (ITSCM) process supports the overall Business Continuity Management (BCM) process by ensuring that the required IT technical and service facilities can recommence within required business timescales.

The objectives of ITSCM are to
• maintain IT Service Continuity and recovery plans that support overall Business Continuity Plans (BCPs) 
• complete regular Business Impact Analysis (BIA) exercises to ensure that all continuity plans align with changing business requirements 
• perform regular risk analysis and management exercises, especially together with the business and the Availability Management and Security Management processes 
• give advice and guidance to other business and IT areas on all continuity and recovery-related issues, and 
• ensure that appropriate continuity and recovery mechanisms are in place to meet agreed business continuity targets 

ITSCM aims to assess the effect of any changes on the IT service continuity plans and IT recovery plans.

It also strives to ensure that cost-justifiable, proactive measures to improve service availability are implemented.

Furthermore, it aims to establish the necessary contracts with suppliers – in alignment with the Supplier Management process – to provide the recovery capability needed to support all continuity plans.



Question

Identify some of the objectives of ITSCM.

Options:
1.To guide other business and IT areas on continuity and recovery-related issues
2.To ensure that appropriate continuity and recovery mechanisms are in place to meet agreed business continuity targets
3.To ensure that information is disclosed only to authorized personnel
4.To ensure that business transactions and information trades are trustworthy

Answer

Option 1: Correct. ITSCM provides advice and guidance to other business and IT areas with regard to continuity and recovery-related issues.

Option 2: Correct. ITSCM supports the BCM process by ensuring that the required IT technical and service facilities can recommence within required and agreed business timescales.

Option 3: Incorrect. Protecting the confidentiality of information is an objective of ISM. ITSCM aims to support the overall BCM process.

Option 4: Incorrect. Ensuring the authenticity and nonrepudiation of all business transactions is an ISM objective. ITSCM strives to support the BCM process.

Correct answer(s):

1. To guide other business and IT areas on continuity and recovery-related issues
2. To ensure that appropriate continuity and recovery mechanisms are in place to meet agreed business continuity targets

ITSCM is a cyclic process that should occur throughout the Service Lifecycle, to ensure that newly developed service continuity and recovery plans are kept aligned with BCPs and business priorities.



Graphic

A flowchart displays the cyclical process of IT Service Continuity Management (ITSCM). At initiation, Business Continuity Management (BCM) starts with business continuity strategy, then moves on to business continuity plans, and then ongoing operation. At initiation, ITSCM starts with requirements and strategy (which links to BCM's business continuity strategy), then moves on to implementation (which links to BCM's business continuity plans), and then ongoing operation (which links to BCM's ongoing operation and back to ITSCM's initiation). Invocation relates to both BCM and ITSCM's ongoing operation. Continuity event links to invocation.

The ITSCM lifecycle includes four stages:
initiationInitiation is the first stage of the lifecycle. It applies to the whole organization and includes activities such as policy setting, specifying terms of reference, allocating resources, defining the project organization and control structure, and agreeing on project and quality plans.
requirements and strategySetting business requirements and strategy is the second stage of the lifecycle. Business Impact Analysis (BIA) and risk assessment are also performed in this stage, and required risk reduction measures and recovery options are recorded.
implementation, andImplementation is the third stage of the lifecycle, in which the strategy has been approved and the IT service continuity plan is produced in alignment with the BCP. The activities in this stage include developing ITSCM plans that ensure that the necessary information for critical systems, services, and facilities will still be provided or will be reinstated within a reasonable period after a failure.
ongoing operationOngoing operation is the final stage of the lifecycle. It's activities include raising awareness through education and training, performing reviews and testing, and Change Management.

The initiation and requirement stages are BCM activities during which the ITSCM process provides support. These initial activities result in a business continuity strategy that focuses on business processes and associated issues.

An ITSCM strategy is produced after the business continuity strategy, once the role of IT services within the strategy has been determined. Both strategies support each other.

The activities in the implementation stage depend on the extent to which continuity facilities have been applied within the organization. For example, certain parts of the business could have established their own BCPs.

Successful implementation of ITSCM relies on identifying critical business processes, and on the analysis and coordination of required technology and supporting IT services.

Training activities in the ongoing operation stage ensure that all staff are aware of the implications of business continuity and service continuity.

Regular review activities of the deliverables that result from ITSCM, ensure that these deliverables remain up to date.

As part of this stage, a regular testing program must be established to ensure that important components of the strategy are tested. Whenever changes are made to IT technology, thorough testing must be performed.

The Change Management process, which forms part of the ongoing operation stage, should ensure that all changes are assessed to determine their potential impact on the ITSCM plans.



Question

Sequence the stages of the ITSCM lifecycle.

Options:
A.Initiation
B.Requirements and strategy
C.Implementation
D.Ongoing operation

Answer

Correct answer(s):
Initiation is ranked The initiation stage is the first stage of the ITSCM lifecycle. It includes activities such as policy setting, specifying terms of reference and scope, allocating resources, defining the project organization and control structure, and agreeing on project and quality plans.Requirements and strategy is ranked Business requirements and strategy are determined during the second stage of the ITSCM lifecycle. BIA and risk assessment are also performed during this stage, and required risk reduction measures and recovery options are recorded.Implementation is ranked The implementation stage occurs third in the ITSCM lifecycle, once a business continuity strategy and an aligned ITSCM strategy have been produced. In this stage, measures for ensuring continuity are put in place.Ongoing operation is ranked Ongoing operation is the final stage of the ITSCM lifecycle. Activities in this stage include raising awareness through education and training, performing reviews and testing, and Change Management.
3. Security and ITSCM managers

The security manager and IT service continuity manager are respectively responsible for ISM and ITSCM.

These are some of the responsibilities of the security manager:
• developing and maintaining the information security policy and supporting policies 
• ensuring appropriate authorization, commitment to, and approval of policies by senior IT and business management 
• communicating and publicizing the information security policy to all the appropriate areas 
• ensuring that the information security policy is enforced and abided by, and 
• identifying and classifying IT and information assets, as well as the necessary level of protection 

These are some of the responsibilities of the IT service continuity manager:
• performing BIAs for all services 
• implementing and maintaining the ITSCM process to ensure that agreed targets are met 
• ensuring that all ITSCM plans, risks, and activities support and align with BCM plans, risks, and activities, and 
• performing risk assessment and management to prevent failures whenever practical and cost-justifiable 

The IT service continuity manager is also responsible for developing and maintaining the ITSCM strategy and assessing any possible service continuity problems and, if necessary, using the service continuity plan.



Question

Match each of the process managers to their particular responsibilities.

Options:
A.Security manager
B.IT service continuity manager

Targets:
1.Communicating and publicizing the information security policy
2.Identifying and classifying IT and information assets
3.Performing a Business Impact Analysis for all services
4.Performing risk assessment and management to prevent failures

Answer

Communicating and publicizing the information security policy to all the appropriate areas helps meet the aims of the ISM process, and is a responsibility of the security manager.

Identifying and classifying IT and information assets, as well as the necessary level of protection, is a responsibility of the security manager.

Performing a Business Impact Analysis for all services helps meet the objectives of ITSCM, which focuses on supporting BCM. This is the responsibility of the IT service continuity manager.

Performing risk assessment and management to prevent failures whenever practical and cost-justifiable helps meet the objectives of the ITSCM process, which aims to provide IT service continuity in support of business continuity strategy. This is the responsibility of the IT service continuity manager.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option A

Target 3 = Option B

Target 4 = Option B

4. Summary

The Information Security Management (ISM) process provides the focus for all aspects of IT security. An information security policy and an Information Security Management System (ISMS) are needed to support effective ISM. 

IT Service Continuity Management (ITSCM) is a Service Design process that supports the Business Continuity Management process. It should adopt a lifecycle approach to service management, with stages for service initiation, requirements and strategy, implementation, and ongoing operations.

The security manager and the IT service continuity manager are responsible for ensuring that the aims of ISM and ITSCM are met.

Back to top
 

Understanding Service Design Processes
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize Service Design processes, objectives, and basic concepts
 
1. Exercise overview

In this exercise, you're required to recognize Service Design processes, objectives, and basic concepts.

This involves the following tasks:
•recognizing Service Design processes and their objectives, and
•understanding basic concepts associated with Service Design processes

2. Identifying objectives

An IT organization that has recently started operations has yet to implement ITIL® principles in the running of its business. It is currently experiencing problems in some areas of its operations.

The organization is particularly concerned about the areas that fall under the scope of Service Design. It knows that there are certain processes that should be applied that would help to streamline activities and eliminate the problems that are currently being experienced.



Question

The IT organization is having trouble with its contracted suppliers. The suppliers don't always comply with their contractual agreements, and the IT organization feels that it could obtain better value from these relationships.

Which Service Design process would help alleviate these problems?

Options:
1.Capacity Management
2.Supplier Management
3.Service Catalog Management
4.IT Service Continuity Management (ITSCM)

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. Capacity Management is not concerned with the maintenance of relations with suppliers, but rather aims to ensure that IT processes are planned and scheduled to provide a consistent level of performance.

Option 2: Correct. Supplier Management aims to manage all suppliers and contracts needed to support the IT organization. This includes ensuring that suppliers meet their contractual obligations and that the IT organization can obtain value for money from the suppliers.

Option 3: Incorrect. Service Catalog Management is not concerned with the relationship with suppliers, but rather has the objective of managing the information contained within the Service Catalog and to ensure its accuracy.

Option 4: Incorrect. ITSCM is not concerned with the relationship with suppliers, but rather with the provision of guidance on IT continuity or recovery issues to all other areas of the business.

Correct answer(s):

2. Supplier Management



Question

The IT organization has noted that there is no single source of information about the IT services that it offers. This has resulted in confusion among potential customers about what the organization provides. It has also resulted in incorrect information being provided to third parties.

Which Service Design process can help eliminate this problem?

Options:
1.Supplier Management
2.Availability Management
3.Information Security Management
4.Service Catalog Management

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. Supplier Management aims to manage all suppliers and contracts needed to support the IT organization. It is not responsible for managing the Service Catalog.

Option 2: Incorrect. The Availability Management process aims to ensure that all operational services meet the agreed availability targets. It is not responsible for managing information about the services offered.

Option 3: Incorrect. Information Security Management (ISM) ensures that information security risks are managed appropriately and that enterprise information resources are responsibly used. It is not responsible for managing the Service Catalog.

Option 4: Correct. Service Catalog Management is responsible for creating a Service Catalog, which lists all the services the IT organization offers. It is also responsible for managing and maintaining the information in the Catalog, thereby ensuring that potential customers will receive accurate information about the services that the organization offers.

Correct answer(s):

4. Service Catalog Management



Question

The IT organization is concerned about the security of its information. It has learned that unauthorized personnel can access confidential information fairly easily.

Which Service Design process can help to eliminate this problem?

Options:
1.Capacity Management
2.Availability Management
3.Information Security Management
4.Supplier Management

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. Capacity Management is not concerned with the security of confidential information, but rather aims to ensure that IT processes are planned and scheduled to provide a consistent level of performance.

Option 2: Incorrect. The Availability Management process aims to ensure that all operational services meet the desired availability targets. It is not responsible for the security of information within the IT organization.

Option 3: Correct. Information Security Management (ISM) ensures that information security risks are managed appropriately. ISM can implement policies such as password protection to ensure that only authorized persons can view confidential information.

Option 4: Incorrect. Supplier Management aims to manage all suppliers and contracts needed to support the IT organization. It is not responsible for ensuring the security of information in the organization.

Correct answer(s):

3. Information Security Management

3. Identifying responsibilities

The IT organization has realized the benefits of applying the various processes of Service Design to its business operations.

However, it needs to ensure that the people assigned to control these processes are aware of their responsibilities so that the processes remain effective.



Question

Match the responsibilities to the relevant process managers.

Options:
A.Producing and maintaining the Service Catalog
B.Ensuring that services deliver the levels of availability established in Service Level Agreements (SLAs)
C.Regularly performing a Risk Analysis of all contracts
D.Communicating the information security policy to all the appropriate areas
E.Predicting future capacity requirements
F.Making sure that all ITSCM plans, risks, and activities align with and support BCM plans, risks, and activities

Targets:
1.Service Catalog manager
2.Availability manager
3.Supplier manager
4.Security manager
5.Capacity manager
6.IT service continuity manager

Answer

The Service Catalog manager is responsible for producing and maintaining the Service Catalog. This entails ensuring that all relevant services are recorded in the Service Catalog and that all the information is accurate and up to date.

The availability manager is responsible for ensuring that all services deliver the levels of availability established in SLAs. The manager is also responsible for ensuring that all new services are designed to deliver the levels of availability required by the business.

The supplier manager is responsible for supporting the development and review of SLAs, contracts, agreements, and any other documents for third-party suppliers. This person is also responsible for maintaining and reviewing a Supplier and Contract Database (SCD).

The security manager is responsible for developing and maintaining the information security policy and publicizing it to all the appropriate areas of the IT organization. This person is also responsible for ensuring that the information security policy is enforced and abided by.

The capacity manager is responsible for identifying and managing current capacity requirements, and for predicting future capacity requirements.

The IT service continuity manager is responsible for ensuring the continuity of IT services, in alignment with business continuity strategy. This includes ensuring that all ITSCM plans, risks, and activities align with and support BCM plans, risks, and activities.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

Target 5 = Option E

Target 6 = Option F

4. Recognizing Service Design processes

The IT organization knows that the process of Capacity Management is complex and technical, and is therefore divided into subprocesses.



Question

The IT organization wants to ensure that it can identify the subprocesses of Capacity Management.

Which are those subprocesses?

Options:
1.Service Capacity Management
2.Supplier Management
3.Business Capacity Management
4.Component Capacity Management
5.Service Catalog Management

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Service Capacity Management aims to manage, control, and predict the end-to-end performance and capacity of operational IT service usage and workloads.This subprocess also ensures that the performance of all services is monitored and measured.

Option 2: Incorrect. The Supplier Management process is one of the Service Design processes, rather than a subprocess of Capacity Management. The Supplier Management process aims to ensure that suppliers meet the terms, conditions, and targets of their contracts and agreements.

Option 3: Correct. Business Capacity Management turns business needs and plans into requirements for service and IT infrastructure. This subprocess ensures that future business requirements for IT services are quantified, designed, planned, and implemented in a timely fashion.

Option 4: Correct. Component Capacity Management is responsible for the management, control, and prediction of the performance, utilization, and capacity of IT technology components. This subprocess ensures that components of the IT infrastructure with limited resources are monitored and measured.

Option 5: Incorrect. The Service Catalog Management process is one of the Service Design processes, rather than a subprocess of Capacity Management. The Service Catalog Management process aims to provide a single, consistent source of information about services.

Correct answer(s):

1. Service Capacity Management
3. Business Capacity Management
4. Component Capacity Management



Question

The IT organization knows that part of the objectives of the Supplier Management process is to maintain the Supplier and Contract Database (SCD).

Which are examples of what the SCD should contain?

Options:
1.A summary of the goals and purposes of the IT organization, and details of what services it provides 
2.The details of a computer organization that provides PCs and other hardware to the IT organization
3.Details of the contract between the IT organization and its e-mail provider
4.Details of a foreign IT consultant who is contracted to work for the organization for six months

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. The SCD provides details of the IT organization's suppliers, and summaries of the suppliers' products and services. It does not contain details of the organization's own services.

Option 2: Correct. The SCD is a database that provides details of all the organization's suppliers, including the types of services they provide.

Option 3: Correct. The SCD is a database that provides details of all the organization's suppliers, as well as the details of the contracts between the organization and the suppliers.

Option 4: Incorrect. The SCD is a database that provides details of all the organization's suppliers and contracts with those suppliers, rather than details of the organization's employees.

Correct answer(s):

2. The details of a computer organization that provides PCs and other hardware to the IT organization
3. Details of the contract between the IT organization and its e-mail provider

The IT organization is designing an e-accounting system that enables users to record, perform, and track all organizational accounting activity electronically.

Availability Management is conducting measurements and calculations in order to determine the availability, reliability, and maintainability of the e-accounting service.



Question

The e-accounting service package has an agreed service time of 4,380 hours. During this time, the service has had three hours of downtime – three breaks of an hour each.

Which calculation must you perform to determine the availability of the service?

Options:
1.Divide 3 – the hours of downtime – by 3, which is the number of breaks
2.Subtract 3 from 4,380, divide the result by 4,380, and multiply by 100
3.Divide 4,380 by 3
4.Subtract 3 from 4,380 and divide the result by 3

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. This formula will calculate the maintainability of the service in terms of Mean Time to Restore Service (MTRS). In this case, the maintainability of the service is one hour.

Option 2: Correct. To calculate service availability as a percentage, you subtract downtime in hours from total time available, divide by the total time available, and – to obtain a percentage – multiply by 100. In this case, the service has an availability of 99.93%.

Option 3: Incorrect. This formula will calculate the reliability of the service in terms of Mean Time Between Service Incidents (MTBSI). In this case, the reliability of the service is 1,460 hours MTBSI.

Option 4: Incorrect. This formula will calculate the reliability of the service in terms of Mean Time Between Failures (MTBF). In this case, the reliability is 1,459 hours MTBF.

Correct answer(s):

2. Subtract 3 from 4,380, divide the result by 4,380, and multiply by 100

The IT service provider has implemented the Information Security Management process. Part of this process is establishing the Information Security Management System (ISMS).



Question

Which are examples of elements of the ISMS?

Options:
1.Conducting a once-off audit of the technical security of the IT system
2.Establishing a management framework that can initiate and manage information security in the organization
3.Using security procedures that are justified, appropriate, and supported by senior management
4.Eliminating unnecessary security measures

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. The evaluation element of ISMS aims to supervise and check compliance with the security policy, which entails conducting regular audits of the technical security of IT systems.

Option 2: Correct. This is an example of the control element. This element establishes an organization structure capable of preparing, approving, and implementing the information security policy. 

Option 3: Correct. This is an example of the implementation element. This element aims to ensure that appropriate procedures, tools, and controls underpin the information security policy.

Option 4: Incorrect. The plan element of the ISMS aims to identify and create the appropriate security measures, based on knowledge of organizational needs.

Correct answer(s):

2. Establishing a management framework that can initiate and manage information security in the organization
3. Using security procedures that are justified, appropriate, and supported by senior management



Question

The IT organization has implemented the IT Service Continuity Management process. The Service Continuity Lifecycle is important for maintaining this process.

Match examples of activities to the corresponding stages in the IT Service Continuity Management (ITSCM) lifecycle.

Options:
A.Allocating resources to the establishment of the business continuity environment
B.Conducting a Business Impact Analysis (BIA) to measure the impact to the business that loss of service would have
C.Developing continuity plans, such as a recovery plan
D.Ensuring that all staff are trained and aware of the implications of business continuity and service continuity

Targets:
1.Initiation
2.Requirements and strategy
3.Implementation
4.Ongoing operation

Answer

Initiation is the first stage of the lifecycle. It applies to the whole organization and includes activities such as policy setting, specifying terms of reference and scope, allocating resources, defining the project organization and control structure, and agreeing on project and quality plans. 

Requirements and strategy is the second stage of the lifecycle. Business requirements are determined in this stage. BIA and risk assessment are performed, and required risk reduction measures and recovery options to support the business are recorded.

Implementation is the third stage of the lifecycle. The activities in this stage include developing ITSCM plans that ensure that the necessary information for critical systems, services, and facilities will still be provided or will be reinstated within a reasonable period
 after a failure.

Ongoing operation is the fourth stage of the lifecycle. Its activities include raising awareness through education and training, review, testing, and change management.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

Service Design processes and their objectives were identified, the roles and responsibilities associated with these processes were determined, and concepts associated with the processes were recognized.

Back to top
 

© 2017 Skillsoft Ireland Limited
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
 
Print 

Course Transcript
 

ITIL® 2011 Edition Foundation: Service Design Processes
  

Service Level Management

1. Introduction to Service Level Management

2. Service Level Management Process Activities

3. Provide Service Level Management

Managing Key Service Design Processes

1. Design Coordination

2. Service Catalog and Availability Management

3. Measure Availability, Reliability, and Maintainability

4. Capacity Management and Supplier Management

5. Information Security Management and ITSCM

6. Understanding Service Design Processes
   

Introduction to Service Level Management
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize the basic concepts of Service Level Management
•identify the objectives of Service Level Management
 
1. Service Design processes

Several management processes guide effective Service Design.

The main purpose of Service Design processes is to provide key information for the design of new or changed service solutions.

The output of Service Design processes should be the design of service solutions that meet both business and customer needs.

Service Design includes eight processes.
Service Level Management (SLM)SLM involves negotiating Service Level Agreements (SLAs) and ensuring that they are adhered to. It also involves monitoring and reporting on service levels. 
Service Catalog ManagementService Catalog Management involves maintaining an accurate, central set of information on all services provided by an organization. A Service Catalog usually details a service's status, interfaces, and dependencies. 
Availability ManagementAvailability Management involves ensuring reliable, stable service availability for customers. 
Capacity ManagementCapacity Management involves ensuring that the capacity and performance of IT systems and infrastructures meet business requirements in the most cost-effective and timely way. 
Supplier ManagementSupplier Management involves ensuring that all contracted suppliers meet the needs of the organization, and that they deliver on all contractual agreements on time. 
Information Security ManagementInformation Security Management provides strategic direction for security activities. It ensures that information is secure and that assets are used appropriately. 
IT Service Continuity ManagementIT Service Continuity Management supports business continuity management processes by ensuring that IT infrastructure and service facilities can be recovered after a disaster within an agreed timescale. 
Design coordinationDesign coordination involves ensuring the overall goals and objectives of the Service Design stage are met by providing and maintaining a single point of coordination and control for all activities and processes within the Service Design stage of the Service Lifecycle. 

Service Design processes should be used during each of the five aspects of Service Design.

These aspects include the design of
• solutions for new or changed services, including their functional requirements, assets, and required resources and capabilities 
• management information systems and tools, including the Service Portfolio 
• required technology and management architectures 
• the business processes required to design, transition to, operate, and improve the new or changed services and architectures, and 
• the measurement methods and metrics required for the services and their components 

Throughout Service Design, a results-driven approach must be adopted to ensure that IT services provide planned business outcomes and results, and meet customers' requirements and expectations.

Question Set



Service Design processes are responsible for providing key information to the design of new or changed service solutions.

Question 1 of 2



Question

What are some of the Service Design processes?

Options:
1.Service Level Management (SLM)
2.Service Catalog Management
3.Availability Management
4.Capacity Management
5.Measurement methods and metrics for services
6.Technology architectures and management systems

Answer

Option 1: Correct. SLM is a key Service Design process. It involves negotiating SLAs and ensuring that they are adhered to.

Option 2: Correct. Service Catalog Management is a key Service Design process. It involves maintaining accurate information on all services provided by the organization.

Option 3: Correct. Availability Management is a key Service Design process. It ensures consistent service availability for customers.

Option 4: Correct. Capacity Management is a key Service Design process. It ensures that IT infrastructure is able to meet business requirements.

Option 5: Incorrect. Measurement methods and metrics required to measure service performance aren't a process for managing Service Design. The design of these methods and metrics is one of the five aspects of Service Design that the processes manage.

Option 6: Incorrect. Technology architectures and management systems are not one of the main Service Design processes. The design of technology architectures and management systems is an aspect of Service Design.

Correct answer(s):

1. Service Level Management (SLM)
2. Service Catalog Management
3. Availability Management
4. Capacity Management

Question 2 of 2



Question

Identify some of the processes included in Service Design.

Options:
1.Supplier Management
2.IT Service Continuity Management
3.Service Management tool design
4.Information Security Management
5.Service Portfolio design
6.Design coordination

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Supplier Management is a key Service Design process. Its purpose is to ensure that all contracted suppliers meet the needs of the business.

Option 2: Correct. IT Service Continuity Management is a key Service Design process. Its main purpose is to support business continuity by ensuring that IT infrastructure can be recovered after a disaster within an agreed timescale.

Option 3: Incorrect. Designing Service Management tools, including the Service Portfolio, isn't a Service Design process. It's one of the aspects of Service Design that processes are used to regulate and control.

Option 4: Correct. Information Security Management is a key Service Design process. It provides strategic direction for security activities and aims to ensure that all information is secure.

Option 5: Incorrect. The design of the Service Portfolio is not one of the main Service Design processes, but an aspect of Service Design. The processes are used during the design of the Service Portfolio.

Option 6: Correct. The purpose of the design coordination process is to coordinate and control the activities and processes of the Service Design stage so that all goals and objectives of this stage are met.

Correct answer(s):

1. Supplier Management
2. IT Service Continuity Management
4. Information Security Management
6. Design coordination

The development of contracts is an important part of the Service Design process.

A contract is a legally binding commitment between a customer and a supplier. It sets out the obligations and responsibilities of each party, as well as the targets that must be met – during and sometimes even after the delivery of services.

Generally, a contract contains commercial and legal clauses, specifying the nature of the commitment between parties and ensuring that this commitment is enforceable.

It forms the basis on which trust in a business relationship is developed.

Contracts may also include other agreed terms, such as
• security requirements 
• business continuity requirements 
• mandated technical standards 
• migration plans, and 
• disclosure agreements 

2. Introduction to Service Level Management

The purpose of Service Level Management (SLM) is to make sure an agreed level of service is provided and maintained for delivered IT services.

It does this by ensuring agreed and achievable targets are set, and that operational services and their performance are monitored regularly throughout an organization.

It also ensures that the services and reports that are produced meet both business and customer requirements.

In the past, many organizations regarded SLM simply as the management of agreements dealing with system availability or help desk calls. However, this is no longer the case.

Instead, SLM is now seen as a crucial part of Continual Service Improvement (CSI) that must drive IT services. By ensuring service levels are managed continually to meet agreed targets, it facilitates the development of trusted partnerships.

Basic concepts that are central to SLM include the management of service levels in relation to
suppliersA supplier is a third-party provider that is responsible for providing components, supplies, or services required to create and deliver a service to a customer. Suppliers are managed by underpinning contracts that ensure that the supplier meets the targets that are required to fulfill the SLA. Although a separate process is responsible for managing suppliers, SLM is responsible for defining, documenting, monitoring, and reporting associated service levels.SLAs, andAn SLA is an agreement between a service provider and a customer that defines the key service targets and responsibilities of both parties. SLM establishes SLAs to manage the service provided and customer expectations, and to meet agreed quality requirements.Operational Level Agreements (OLAs)SLM is responsible for ensuring that all targets agreed in SLAs with an organization are supported by appropriate underpinning OLAs. An OLA is an agreement between the service provider and another area or department of the same organization that assists with the provision of services. An OLA should define the targets that support those agreed in the SLA. This ensures that targets will not be breached by failure of the supporting activity, department, or supplier.


Question

Identify the basic concepts of SLM.

Options:
1.Managing agreement between service provider and customer, and defining targets
2.Defining, documenting, monitoring, and reporting the service levels provided by third-party suppliers
3.Managing OLAs
4.Managing Service Catalogs
5.Managing Service Portfolios

Answer

Option 1: Correct. An SLA is an agreement between a service provider and a customer that defines the requirements of both parties. An important role of SLM is managing SLAs.

Option 2: Correct. Suppliers are third-party providers that supply components or services needed to deliver a particular service. They impact directly on service levels. Although a separate process is responsible for managing suppliers, SLM is responsible for defining, documenting, monitoring, and reporting associated service levels.

Option 3: Correct. An OLA is an agreement between the service provider and another area or department of the same organization that assists with the provision of services. SLM is responsible for managing OLAs.

Option 4: Incorrect. Service Catalogs are managed during the Service Catalog Management process, rather than through SLM.

Option 5: Incorrect. Service Portfolios are managed during the Service Portfolio Management process, rather than through SLM.

Correct answer(s):

1. Managing agreement between service provider and customer, and defining targets
2. Defining, documenting, monitoring, and reporting the service levels provided by third-party suppliers
3. Managing OLAs

The objectives of SLM are to ensure that
• the level of all IT services is defined, documented, agreed, monitored, measured, reported on, and reviewed 
• relationships and communications with customers are improved at all levels within the business and customer community 
• measurable targets exist for all services 
• customer satisfaction is managed and improved with the level of service quality provided 
• both IT service providers and customers have clear and unambiguous expectations of the level of service to be provided, and 
• measures are taken to improve service levels where it is financially justifiable to do so 



Question

What are the objectives of SLM?

Options:
1.To define, monitor, and report the service level of IT services provided
2.To improve relationships
3.To establish measurable targets
4.To improve customer satisfaction
5.To ensure that customers have clear expectations
6.To ensure that improvements are implemented
7.To improve the quality of the Service Portfolio
8.To ensure that IT infrastructure supports customers' needs

Answer

Option 1: Correct. SLM aims to define, document, agree, monitor, measure, and review the service level of all IT services.

Option 2: Correct. Improving relationships is an objective of SLM. SLM aims to build relationships with all customer groups within the customer community.

Option 3: Correct. Establishing specific, measurable targets for services is an objective of SLM. These targets are included in SLAs.

Option 4: Correct. SLM aims to improve customer satisfaction with the level of quality of all services provided.

Option 5: Correct. Ensuring that both customers and the service provider have clear, unambiguous expectations of the level of service to be provided is an objective of SLM.

Option 6: Correct. Ensuring that service improvements are implemented, where this is financially justified, is an objective of SLM.

Option 7: Incorrect. SLM does not improve the quality of the Service Portfolio. Instead, the Service Portfolio is an input into SLM.

Option 8: Incorrect. Capacity Management – rather than SLM – is the process responsible for ensuring that IT infrastructure supports business and customer needs.

Correct answer(s):

1. To define, monitor, and report the service level of IT services provided
2. To improve relationships
3. To establish measurable targets
4. To improve customer satisfaction
5. To ensure that customers have clear expectations
6. To ensure that improvements are implemented

3. Summary

Service Design is responsible for providing information for all new or modified services. It comprises eight processes – design coordination, SLM, Service Catalog Management, Availability Management, Capacity Management, Supplier Management, Information Security Management, and IT Service Continuity Management.

The purpose of SLM is to ensure that an agreed level of service is provided for all services. The objectives of SLM include managing the level of IT services provided, improving relationships, ensuring measurable targets are set, improving customer satisfaction, ensuring customers have clear expectations, and ensuring that service improvements are implemented.

Back to top
 

Service Level Management Process Activities
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize how to conduct the activities involved in the negotiating phase of the SLM process
•recognize how to conduct the activities in the monitoring and reporting phases of the SLM process
•recognize the activities in the reviewing phase of the SLM process
 
1. Service Level Management activities

Service Level Management (SLM) involves several key activities. These activities can be organized into four phases.
NegotiatingThe activities within the negotiating phase include designing Service Level Agreement (SLA) frameworks, determining and documenting requirements for new services and producing Service Level Requirements (SLRs), and developing contacts and relationships. 
MonitoringThe activities within the monitoring phase include monitoring service performance against SLAs, and measuring, collating information about, and improving customer satisfaction. 
ReportingThe activities within the reporting phase include producing service reports and logging and managing complaints and compliments. 
ReviewingThe activities within the reviewing phase include reviewing and revising underpinning agreements, conducting service reviews, and instigating improvements within an overall Service Improvement Program (SIP). They also include reviewing and revising SLAs. 



Question

What are some of the key activities of SLM?

Options:
1.Designing SLA frameworks
2.Producing SLRs
3.Developing and documenting contacts and relationships
4.Monitoring service performance
5.Improving customer satisfaction
6.Updating the Service Catalog
7.Implementing information security systems

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Designing SLA frameworks, which involves ensuring that all services and all customers are covered in a matter best suited to the organization's needs, is an activity of SLM.

Option 2: Correct. Determining, documenting, and agreeing on requirements for new services and then producing SLRs is an important activity of SLM.

Option 3: Correct. Developing and documenting contacts and relationships with customers is an activity of SLM.

Option 4: Correct. Monitoring service performance against the agreed service levels specified in SLAs is an activity of SLM.

Option 5: Correct. Measuring, collating information about, and improving customer satisfaction is an activity of SLM.

Option 6: Incorrect. The Service Catalog Management process – rather than SLM – is responsible for managing the Service Catalog.

Option 7: Incorrect. The Information Security Management process – rather than SLM – is responsible for managing the security of information.

Correct answer(s):

1. Designing SLA frameworks
2. Producing SLRs
3. Developing and documenting contacts and relationships
4. Monitoring service performance
5. Improving customer satisfaction



Question

Identify some additional key activities in the SLM process.

Options:
1.Producing service level reports
2.Managing customer complaints
3.Instigating service improvements
4.Revising SLAs
5.Monitoring service performance against SLRs
6.Evaluating the capacity of technology infrastructure

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Producing service level reports is an activity in the SLM process.

Option 2: Correct. Logging and managing customer complaints and compliments are activities in the SLM process.

Option 3: Correct. Conducting service reviews and instigating improvements within an overall SIP are activities in the SLM process.

Option 4: Correct. Reviewing and revising SLAs and underpinning agreements are activities in the SLM process.

Option 5: Incorrect. A key activity in SLM is the monitoring of service performance against SLAs, rather than against SLRs.

Option 6: Incorrect. SLM is concerned primarily with managing SLAs and relationships with customers. It doesn't include the management of capacity.

Correct answer(s):

1. Producing service level reports
2. Managing customer complaints
3. Instigating service improvements
4. Revising SLAs

2. The negotiating phase

The negotiating phase of SLM involves designing SLA frameworks, determining, documenting, and obtaining agreement on requirements for new services, and developing and documenting contacts and relationships with the business, customers, and other stakeholders, in cooperation with the Business Relationship Management (BRM) process.

Designing SLA frameworks involves using the Service Catalog to design appropriate SLA structures which are based on business and customer needs.

An SLA can take many forms. Whatever structure the SLA takes, the wording it includes must be clear, concise, and unambiguous. It is therefore recommended that each SLA contain a glossary that defines and clarifies the terms it uses.

There are three types of SLA structures.
Service-based SLAA service-based SLA covers generic service requirements for a particular service and for all customers that make use of that service. This type of SLA does not cater for customers that have different, specific requirements. It also provides little coverage for customers if the characteristics of the infrastructure make varying service levels unavoidable. Therefore, this type of SLA is most appropriate when a broad range of customers or business areas share common service level requirements. 
Customer-based SLAA customer-based SLA covers service agreements for all services that are used by a particular customer group. This type of SLA provides advantages for customers because it lists all their service level requirements within one document. Only one signatory is required. 
Multilevel SLAA multilevel SLA usually comprises three levels – corporate, customer, and service. The corporate level covers the generic SLM requirements of every customer throughout the organization. The customer level covers SLM issues relevant to a customer group. The service level covers SLM issues relevant to the service, in relation to the customer group. 

Producing SLRs is one of the earliest activities in the Service Design stage of the Service Lifecycle. An SLR is a customer requirement for an aspect of an IT service. SLRs are based on business objectives and are used to negotiate agreed service level targets.

As a service progresses through its lifecycle, an SLR develops into an SLA.

It is important to get customers involved at this stage. It is also useful to create an outline of the performance targets, and management and operational requirements, as a starting point for a detailed discussion with the customer.

Determining the initial targets that need to be included within the SLR or SLA can be very difficult. It is therefore important for all other processes, such as Capacity and Availability Management, to provide the input that is needed when determining realistic targets.

If there is any doubt about whether a target needs to be included, it should be included in a draft SLA. The draft SLA can then be monitored and adjusted throughout the service warranty period.

The draft SLA is used during negotiations with the customer to finalize service targets, and with the service provider to ensure that the targets are achievable.

An important activity of SLM is developing and documenting contacts and relationships with customers. This ensures that the organization develops trust and respect with its customers.

The Service Catalog provides information that can help in the development of relationships with customers. It identifies the relationships between services and the customer business areas that depend on them. In addition, it should provide key contacts for each service.

There are several activities that take place during the SLM process to develop contacts and relationships. These activities include
• confirming stakeholders, managers in key business areas, and customers 
• maintaining accurate information within the Service Catalog and Service Portfolio 
• being flexible and responsive to the needs of the customer 
• developing a full understanding of the customer, the customer's organization, and strategies 
• regularly sampling the customer experience 
• conducting customer surveys and acting on the results, and 
• ensuring that the correct relationship processes are in place to achieve objectives 

Other activities for developing relationships and contacts are
• marketing and exploiting the Service Portfolio and Service Catalog 
• assisting with maintaining a list of outstanding improvements 
• ensuring that the organization and customers understand their responsibilities 
• facilitating the negotiation of SLRs and SLAs 
• raising the awareness of the business benefits when using new technology 
• promoting service awareness, and 
• ensuring that IT provides the most appropriate levels of service 



Question

Which activities involving negotiation are included in the SLM process?

Options:
1.Designing an appropriate type of SLA
2.Identifying requirements for service levels
3.Building trust with customers
4.Outlining service operation requirements before consulting customers
5.Identifying relationships between services and the customer business areas that depend on them

Answer

Option 1: Correct. A key activity in the SLM process is designing an appropriate SLA structure based on the organization's needs. A draft SLA is used during negotiations with the customer to finalize service targets and with the service provider to ensure that the targets are achievable. SLAs can use customer-based, client-based, or multilevel structures.

Option 2: Correct. A key activity in SLM is determining, documenting, and obtaining agreement on the service requirements to be included in SLRs. Outlines should include both performance targets and management requirements.

Option 3: Correct. Developing and documenting contacts and relationships with customers is an important activity in SLM because it builds trust between the organization and its customers. The Service Catalog provides information that can guide this activity.

Option 4: Incorrect. SLM is responsible for identifying and finalizing service operation requirements. However, these need to be defined with the participation of customers.

Option 5: Incorrect. The Service Catalog identifies the relationships between services and the customer business areas in which they address needs. This is an input to the SLM process, rather than an activity for which it's responsible.

Correct answer(s):

1. Designing an appropriate type of SLA
2. Identifying requirements for service levels
3. Building trust with customers

3. The monitoring and reporting phases

The monitoring phase of SLM involves monitoring service performance against SLAs and collating, measuring, and improving customer satisfaction.

The reporting phase of SLM involves producing service reports and logging and managing customer complaints and compliments, in coordination with BRM.

Monitoring service performance against SLAs helps ensure that services are operating optimally and meeting customer requirements.

Only specific targets that can be measured and monitored should be included in an SLA. The inclusion of targets that cannot be monitored can result in disputes and loss of faith in SLM.

An important activity in the SLM process is to collate, measure, and improve customer satisfaction, in cooperation with BRM. This requires monitoring service levels with an understanding of customers' perceptions of service delivery.

Existing monitoring capabilities within the organization should be reviewed and upgraded as necessary. Without monitoring each component of a service, it is hard to gain a complete picture of customer perception.

Many organizations use service desk metrics to monitor customers' perception of service availability. Service desk metrics can also be used to assess incident response and resolution times.



Note

Criteria for logging customer complaints or compliments should be discussed and agreed upon with those responsible for the Availability Management process, and in coordination with BRM.

However, the organization needs to ensure that incident-handling targets included in the SLA are the same as those included in the service desk metrics being captured.

It is best to manage customer perceptions from the outset. This can be achieved by ensuring that appropriate service targets are set and by putting a process in place to manage customer expectations.

The aim should be to provide services that customers need and that are justified in terms of cost and strategy. However, senior business managers need to ensure that no customer group places unrealistic demands on the service provider.

Customer perception can be managed through
• periodic customer questionnaires and surveys 
• customer feedback from review meetings 
• feedback from a Post Implementation Review (PIR) 
• user group and forum meetings, or 
• analysis of customer complaints and compliments 

Whatever method is used to manage customer perception, it is important to ensure that if customers provide feedback, the organization demonstrates a commitment to its customers by acting on this feedback.

Key reporting activities in the SLM process include producing service reports, and logging and managing customer complaints and compliments.

SLM is responsible for identifying reporting needs and automating production of the required reports. It should also ensure that the reports include information on past performance and trends, so that the impact of improvement actions can be measured and predicted.

The results of monitoring must be used to produce service reports.

Periodic reports should include details of service performance and SLA targets. They may also include information about trends or actions that will improve the quality of the service.

Exceptional reports should be created whenever the SLA for a service is breached. Organizations should also create periodic reports based on their review cycles.

A Service Level Agreement Monitoring (SLAM) chart can also be used to assist in monitoring and reporting on actual achievements in relation to set targets. A SLAM chart is usually color coded to indicate whether each agreed target has been met, missed, or almost missed.

SLM should include procedures for logging and managing customer complaints and compliments. The service desk is usually responsible for logging complaints and compliments because it plays a key role in Incident Management.

Complaints and compliments should be defined and validated with the customer and identifiable key points of contact to ensure that they are communicated to the relevant parties for analysis. In this way, all complaints are managed and acted upon to the satisfaction of the customer.

SLM should define escalation procedures for complaints that are not acted upon appropriately or within predefined times. Reports should also be created to identify the types of complaints, trends, and the actions taken to resolve them. Similar reports should be created to monitor compliments.



Question

Identify monitoring and reporting activities in the SLM process.

Options:
1.Ensuring that service levels are meeting agreed targets
2.Managing customer perceptions and satisfaction
3.Reporting on service performance
4.Logging and responding to customer complaints
5.Ensuring reliable service availability
6.Implementing all service changes and updates requested by customers

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Monitoring service performance against agreed targets in SLAs is a key activity in the SLM process. The service provider may need to review and upgrade existing monitoring tools to align with specified SLA targets.

Option 2: Correct. A key activity in SLM is measuring, collating information about, and improving customer satisfaction – or customers' perceptions of service quality and delivery. A process must be implemented for managing customer expectations, in coordination with BRM.

Option 3: Correct. Producing service reports is a key activity in SLM. The service provider should produce periodic reports to review service performance. Exceptional reports should be produced when SLA targets are breached.

Option 4: Correct. Logging and managing customer complaints and compliments is a key activity in SLM. It's important that all customer complaints are acknowledged and acted upon.

Option 5: Incorrect. Availability Management – rather than SLM – involves ensuring reliable, stable service availability for customers. However, SLM plays a role in ensuring that agreed availability targets are met and in monitoring customer satisfaction with existing service availability.

Option 6: Incorrect. The SLM process needs to consider all customer requests for changes or upgrades. However, relevant changes or upgrades should be implemented only if they justified in terms of cost and are likely to result in improved customer satisfaction.

Correct answer(s):

1. Ensuring that service levels are meeting agreed targets
2. Managing customer perceptions and satisfaction
3. Reporting on service performance
4. Logging and responding to customer complaints

4. The reviewing phase

The reviewing phase of SLM involves reviewing and revising underpinning agreements, conducting service reviews, and implementing improvements.

SLM must review and revise underpinning agreements to ensure that they are comprehensive, kept up-to-date, and aligned with business needs.

The results of this review can serve as inputs for Change and Configuration Management.



Graphic

ITIL®s Service Design publication references these actions as part of the review process:

1. Conduct service reviews and instigate improvements within an overall SIP
2. Review and revise agreements and scope, and Implement improvements

SLM includes conducting service reviews and implementing improvements regularly with customers. It also includes analyzing service performance in the previous period. This helps identify issues that might arise in the future.

Review meetings ensure that actions are taken by the customer and service provider to improve weak areas, where targets are not being met.

If it is decided that SLA targets are unachievable, new, achievable targets must be defined. If it is determined that the SLA breach is caused by failure of a third-party provider, underpinning agreements must be revised.

Because IT service providers are dependent on their own internal technical support teams or on external partners or suppliers, it is important to implement improvements by reviewing and revising SLAs, and underpinning agreements.

When utilizing external suppliers' contracts is mandatory, it is also useful to have agreements with internal support groups through Operational Level Agreements (OLAs). OLAs reflect the need to ensure that all targets within the agreement are aligned with the targets within the SLA.

SLAs should define the expected time frame and process to escalate incidents, and the expected time frame for resolving them. OLAs define the support hours required from all groups that underpin the service availability times in the SLA.

OLAs should be monitored against SLA targets and reports should be produced regularly to provide feedback to the support teams. This helps the service provider identify problem areas that need to be addressed.



Question

Which of the following review activities are conducted in the SLM process?

Options:
1.Review and update contracts with suppliers
2.Improve weak areas in which service targets are not being met
3.Ensure that targets defined in the OLA are aligned with the SLA
4.Ensure that all underpinning contracts with internal IT suppliers remain unchanged
5.Hold review meetings only when service level targets are breached

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Reviewing and revising underpinning agreements is an SLM activity. The service provider needs to ensure that all contracts support customer needs.

Option 2: Correct. Conducting service reviews and initiating improvements are key activities in the SLM process.

Option 3: Correct. The SLA defines the process and expected time frame to escalate incidents, initiate investigations, and resolve incidents. The OLA defines the support hours required from all groups to ensure that service availability times in the SLA are met. Targets defined in the OLA must therefore align with the SLA. The SLM process reviews and revises SLAs and underpinning agreements.

Option 4: Incorrect. The service provider needs to review and update all underpinning contracts to ensure that they are able to support the service and meet the needs of the customer.

Option 5: Incorrect. Review meetings need to be held regularly, instead of only when SLA targets are breached. Review meetings are held to ensure that a service is operating optimally.

Correct answer(s):

1. Review and update contracts with suppliers
2. Improve weak areas in which service targets are not being met
3. Ensure that targets defined in the OLA are aligned with the SLA

5. Summary

SLM comprises many different activities. These activities can be divided into four phases – negotiating, monitoring, reporting, and reviewing. 

The negotiating phase involves designing SLA frameworks, determining, documenting, and obtaining agreement on requirements, and developing contacts and relationships.

The monitoring phase involves monitoring service performance against SLAs, and collating, measuring, and improving customer satisfaction. The reporting category involves producing service reports, and logging and managing complaints and compliments in coordination with BRM. 

The reviewing phase involves reviewing and revising underpinning agreements, conducting service reviews, and implementing improvements.

Back to top
 

Provide Service Level Management
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•Identify the basics of Service Level Management and how to conduct process activities
 
1. Exercise overview

In this exercise, you're required to recognize the purpose and activities of effective Service Level Management (SLM).

This involves the following tasks:
•identifying the basics of SLM, and
•recognizing how to conduct SLM process activities

2. Understanding SLM basics



Question

SLM is one of eight Service Design processes.

Identify the other Service Design processes.

Options:
1.Service Catalog Management
2.Availability Management
3.Capacity Management
4.Supplier Management
5.Information Security Management
6.IT Service Continuity Management
7.Technology Design
8.Service Measurement
9.Design coordination

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Service Catalog Management is a Service Design process. It involves maintaining information on all services offered by the service provider.

Option 2: Correct. Availability Management is a Service Design process. It ensures that services are delivered reliably.

Option 3: Correct. Capacity Management is a Service Design process. It ensures that supporting IT infrastructure is able to meet customers' service requirements.

Option 4: Correct. Supplier Management is a Service Design process. It ensures that suppliers are able to meet the service requirements of customers.

Option 5: Correct. Information Security Management is a Service Design process for ensuring that all information is secure.

Option 6: Correct. IT Service Continuity Management is a Service Design process for ensuring that services can be recovered after a disaster.

Option 7: Incorrect. Technology design is not a Service Design process. Service Design manages IT infrastructure to ensure that service solutions are supported, but it doesn't design actual technologies.

Option 8: Incorrect. Service measurement is not a Service Design process. However, measuring service performance is an important activity in Service Design processes.

Option 9: Correct. Design coordination ensures the goals and objectives of the Service Design stage can be met through a single point of coordination and control for all activities and processes.

Correct answer(s):

1. Service Catalog Management
2. Availability Management
3. Capacity Management
4. Supplier Management
5. Information Security Management
6. IT Service Continuity Management
9. Design coordination



Question

The objectives of SLM include improving customer relationships and customer satisfaction.

Identify the other objectives of SLM.

Options:
1.Managing IT service levels
2.Ensuring that measurable service targets are set
3.Clarifying customer expectations
4.Ensuring that service improvements are implemented
5.Improving the quality of the Service Portfolio
6.Ensuring that the IT infrastructure supports offered services

Answer

Option 1: Correct. SLM defines, documents, monitors, and reviews the level of all IT services provided.

Option 2: Correct. SLM ensures that all targets specified in the SLA for a service are measurable and achievable.

Option 3: Correct. SLM ensures that IT service providers and customers have clear, unambiguous expectations of the level of service to be provided.

Option 4: Correct. SLM ensures that all financially justifiable service improvements are implemented and managed.

Option 5: Incorrect. SLM does not aim to improve the quality of the Service Portfolio. Instead, the Service Portfolio is an input into SLM.

Option 6: Incorrect. Ensuring that the IT infrastructure supports offered services relates to Capacity Management, not SLM. SLM focuses on managing service levels, rather than on managing capacity or infrastructure.

Correct answer(s):

1. Managing IT service levels
2. Ensuring that measurable service targets are set
3. Clarifying customer expectations
4. Ensuring that service improvements are implemented

3. Recognizing SLM process activities



Question

One of the key activities in the SLM process involves designing an SLA.

Match each type of SLA to its characteristic.

Options:
A.Customer-based SLA
B.Service-based SLA
C.Multilevel SLA

Targets:
1.Covers all service requirements of one customer group
2.Covers service requirements for a particular service
3.Covers corporate, customer, and service-based requirements

Answer

Customer-based SLAs cover the service requirements of one customer group for all services used by the group. This type of SLA has advantages for the customer because it lists all their requirements in a single document, requiring only one signatory.

Service-based SLAs cover the generic requirements for a particular service, rather than the requirements of a particular customer or customer group. This type of SLA is most appropriate when a broad range of customers requires a common service level.

Multilevel SLAs usually cover service requirements at the corporate, customer, and service levels. This type of SLA provides the most in-depth coverage of service requirements and targets.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C



Question

Match each SLM process that involves negotiating with the activity it involves. One activity may not be used.

Options:
A.Develop contacts and relationships
B.Determine requirements for new services

Targets:
1.Identify the relationships between services and the business areas that utilize them
2.Create an outline of each service's performance targets and management requirements 
3.Ask the service desk to log complaints and compliments

Answer

SLM uses the Service Catalog to identify relationships between services and the business areas that utilize them, as well as key customer contacts. This assists SLM in developing relationships with customers.

Through SLM, the requirements for new services are defined with the customer and documented in the SLR. The SLR forms the basis for an SLA.

You use the service desk to log complaints and compliments of the service so that you can analyze them and instigate improvements. Analyzing customer complaints and compliments is an activity of the monitoring phase of SLM, not the negotiating phase.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 =No Option Specified.



Question

Match the SLM process with the activity it involves.

Options:
A.Monitor service performance against SLAs
B.Collate, measure, and improve customer satisfaction
C.Conduct service reviews

Targets:
1.Ensuring that services are meeting customer requirements
2.Putting processes in place to manage customer expectations
3.Develop methods that improve areas that do not meet targets

Answer

SLM needs to monitor service performance against the targets set in the SLA. SLM also needs to revise existing monitoring tools to align with any new SLA targets.

SLM needs to implement processes for collating, measuring, and improving customer satisfaction to enable the management of customers' expectations. SLM needs to ensure that these expectations match to provided service levels.

Review meetings ensure that actions are taken by the customer and service provider to improve areas of a service that do not meet targets.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C



Question

What information is the SLM process responsible for reporting?

Options:
1.Customer complaints and compliments
2.Service performance details
3.The quality of the Service Catalog
4.The level of service provided by IT infrastructure

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Service providers need to report on all complaints and compliments received from the customer. The service provider also need to ensure that all complaints are escalated to the appropriate parties to ensure that they are resolved.

Option 2: Correct. Service providers need to produce periodic reports to monitor the performance of all SLA targets in order to identify any weakness and take the necessary action.

Option 3: Incorrect. The Service Catalog Management process – rather than SLM – manages the quality of the Service Catalog.

Option 4: Incorrect. The Capacity Management process – rather than SLM – manages the capacity of the IT infrastructure to support services. However, SLM is responsible for identifying and reporting on any failures to provide agreed service levels.

Correct answer(s):

1. Customer complaints and compliments
2. Service performance details



Question

OLAs should be revised when reviewing and revising SLAs and underpinning agreements.

For what purpose may an organization use an OLA?

Options:
1.To define service level targets for support groups 
2.To define all service level targets for a service
3.To manage service improvement initiatives

Answer

Option 1: Correct. OLAs define the service level targets to be met by all support groups that underpin service availability and efficiency.

Option 2: Incorrect. SLAs – rather than OLAs – are used to define and document customer requirements for a particular service.

Option 3: Incorrect. SLM uses SIPs – rather than OLAs – to initiate, manage, and implement service improvement initiatives.

Correct answer(s):

1. To define service level targets for support groups 



Question

Service providers need to review and revise SLAs to ensure that they continue to meet needs and include realistic service targets.

What else must be reviewed as part of the SLM process?

Options:
1.Contracts with suppliers
2.Service performance
3.Business Service Catalog 

Answer

Option 1: Correct. A key activity in SLM is reviewing underpinning agreements for services. This includes reviewing contracts with suppliers to ensure that they support the needs of the customer.

Option 2: Correct. Important SLM activities include regularly reviewing and reporting on service performance, and implementing improvements in areas where weaknesses are identified.

Option 3: Incorrect. The Business Service Catalog is used but not created or reviewed during the SLM process. It's managed as part of Service Catalog Management.

Correct answer(s):

1. Contracts with suppliers
2. Service performance

The purpose and activities of effective SLM have been recognized.

Back to top
 

Design Coordination
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize the scope of design coordination
•describe the activities in the design coordination process
•identify the challenges and risks of design coordination
 
1. Scope

The Service Design stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle involves many complex activities. The design coordination process helps IT service providers manage and organize these activities so that designs are created to support business outcomes.

Design coordination has the following objectives:
• ensuring the consistent design of Service Management Information Systems, architectures, and technologies 
• coordinating design activities across projects, and managing schedules, resources, and conflicts 
• producing service design packages (SDPs) based on service charters and change requests 
• planning and coordinating resources and capabilities required by Service Design, and 
• managing the quality criteria and handover points between the Service Design stage, and Service Strategy and Service Transition stages 

There are several other design coordination objectives:
• ensuring that all service models and solution designs meet requirements 
• improving the effectiveness and efficiency of Service Design activities and processes 
• monitoring and improving the performance of the Service Design Lifecycle stage, and 
• ensuring a common framework of standards regarding activities, processes, and supporting systems 

The scope of the design coordination process includes all design activity, such as service solutions, that need to be transitioned into, or out of, a live environment.

Certain design activities and projects require more coordination than others. For example, one activity could be part of a large complex project, while another is a simple, individual activity.

Generally, medium to large scale projects require many coordination processes, but the number depends on the needs of the organization. Outline criteria can be used to include or exclude activities in the design coordination process.

The scope of design coordination also includes
• assisting and supporting projects and changes through Service Design activities and processes 
• maintaining policies, guidelines, budgets, models, and resources for activities and processes 
• coordinating, prioritizing, and scheduling resources for Service Design 
• planning and forecasting resources for future Service Design activities 
• reviewing and improving the performance of Service Design activities and processes 
• addressing the utility and warranty requirements of Service Design activities, and 
• producing SDPs and handing them over to Service Transition 

Design coordination excludes activities and processes such as designing service solution details and producing individual parts for SDPs.



Question

Which options form part of the scope and objectives of the design coordination process?

Options:
1.Reviewing the performance of Service Design activities by ensuring they meet user requirements
2.Planning and forecasting resources such as staff and time for Service Design activities
3.Coordinating Service Design activities across all projects 
4.Managing the quality criteria of Service Design activities
5.Producing individual parts of SDPs and handing it over to Service Strategy
6.Managing service activities in the Service Operation stage

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The design coordination process ensures that the activities and processes it involves are constantly improved to enhance projects and individual activities.

Option 2: Correct. Part of the design coordination process involves ensuring that sufficient resources are allocated in order for activities to be carried out properly.

Option 3: Correct. One of the main aims of design coordination is ensuring that all activities reach their objectives and fulfill business outcome requirements.

Option 4: Correct. The design coordination process can define certain criteria for each activity to calculate how much attention and coordination is required.

Option 5: Incorrect. The design coordination process does produce SDPs, but not its individual parts. It also ensures that the SDP is handed over to Service Transition and not Service Strategy.

Option 6: Incorrect. Design coordination doesn't include activities or processes outside the Service Design stage. These activities are the responsibility of the Service Design stage in which they take place.

Correct answer(s):

1. Reviewing the performance of Service Design activities by ensuring they meet user requirements
2. Planning and forecasting resources such as staff and time for Service Design activities
3. Coordinating Service Design activities across all projects 
4. Managing the quality criteria of Service Design activities

There are several reasons why design coordination is useful:
• it achieves services at acceptable risks and costs 
• it minimizes rework and labor costs 
• it increases customer and user satisfaction, and confidence in IT and IT services, and 
• it ensures architectures are consistent and allows for data integration and exchange 

Design coordination also
• focuses on service value and business, and customer outcomes 
• improves the efficiency and effectiveness of Service Design activities and processes 
• supports successful change delivery in a timely and cost-effective manner, and 
• achieves greater agility and quality in designing service solutions 

2. Principles, policies, and activities

Design coordination needs guidelines and policies to ensure a structured and holistic approach to design activities. These policies are defined by service providers because they decide how much attention or coordination design activities require.

For example, an IT service provider indicates that the design portion of all projects should receive individual coordination.

Policies should be in place to ensure design activities are properly documented.

For example, a policy stating that design efforts – that form part of a project – must get a full SDP, while smaller changes need only be documented.

The design coordination process includes policies such as
• adherence to corporate standards and conventions 
• standards for new or changed services such as documentation, training, and communications and marketing 
• governance and regulatory compliance in all design activities, and 
• criteria for how to resolve conflicting demands for Service Design resources 

The main goal of policies is to create value and positive results. However, you shouldn't spend more time creating policies than implementing them.

As a guideline, the design coordination process must have balance in order to address all aspects of utility, warranty, and the needs of the service throughout its lifecycle.

Another guideline is to build on current practices and to continually search for ways to improve them. To do this, you can use the Continual Service Improvement (CSI) approach.

It's also important to limit the number of practices that are implemented, because too many new practices can disrupt design activities and lead to failure.

Design activities that use formal project management methods are often the responsibility of project managers. However, some project managers don't possess adequate skills to oversee this responsibility, especially if projects have larger scope and significant change requirements.

To assist project management within the organization, design coordination can integrate the practices, documents, procedures, and deliverables needed for successful design into the overall project management methodology.



Question

What are some of the key policies and principles of the design coordination?

Options:
1.Addresses all aspects of utility, warranty, and the needs of the Service Lifecycle
2.Builds current practices and uses the steps of the CSI
3.Complies with governance and regulatory standards in all design activities
4.Has criteria for resolving resource conflicts
5.Physically communicates and markets design activities
6.Produces unorthodox cost models
7.Implements new organization practices simultaneously

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Balance is a key principle of design coordination. It ensures that aspects like utility, warranty, and the needs of the service are met throughout its lifecycle.

Option 2: Correct. A principle of design coordination is to build on existing practices and steps, following the CSI approach.

Option 3: Correct. Design coordination should comply with governance and regulatory policies to ensure that rules and laws are upheld while carrying out activities.

Option 4: Correct. The design coordination process has a policy in place to ensure that there are criteria for resolving conflicts over resources in a timely fashion. This ensures that projects run smoothly.

Option 5: Incorrect. Design coordination simply produces communication and marketing plans – it does not carry out the activities.

Option 6: Incorrect. A policy of the design coordination process is to produce cost models that are standard – making them easier to understand.

Option 7: Incorrect. Organizations should take care not to implement too many practices at once, as this may disrupt design activities.

Correct answer(s):

1. Addresses all aspects of utility, warranty, and the needs of the Service Lifecycle
2. Builds current practices and uses the steps of the CSI
3. Complies with governance and regulatory standards in all design activities
4. Has criteria for resolving resource conflicts

The Service Design Stage involves activities that are managed by the design coordination process.

These activities include
• collecting, analyzing and engineering business, service provider, and technical requirements to ensure clear documentation, agreement, and alignment 
• designing service solutions, technology, processes, information, and metrics 
• producing and maintaining IT policies and design documents, and 
• reviewing and revising the design and maintenance of processes design documents 

Other activities include
• planning deployment and implementation of IT strategies using roadmaps, programs, and project plans 
• assessing and managing risk of all design processes and deliverables 
• ensuring alignment with all corporate and IT strategies and policies, and 
• producing service designs and SDPs for new or changed IT services 

Design coordination activities fall into two categories. The first category relates to the overall Service Design stage.
1. Define and maintain policies and methodsDefining and maintaining Service Design policies and methods produces consistent and accurate designs that meet the required business outcomes. Design coordination works collaboratively with all other Service Design processes to ensure a common framework of standard reusable processes, procedures, and systems to improve the effectiveness of the overall Service Design.

This includes agreeing on, using and managing the quality criteria, requirements, interfaces and hand-off points between the Service Design stage and other stages. The level of design coordination needed for different types of projects should also be defined. A set of architectural documents and principles for the design of service solutions and SDPs must also be maintained and revised by the design coordination process. 
2. Plan design resources and capabilitiesPlanning design resources and capabilities for new or changed services and SDPs is another activity. To do this, the design coordination process obtains information on the various activities in the Service Portfolio and Change Management process by communicating with business relationship managers and service owners.

Design coordination also identifies and addresses gaps in current capabilities by working with management and the leaders of the various functional units. Gaps may be addressed by providing training to staff, hiring new staff, automating design activities, enforcing requirements and standards, creating or improving procedures and capabilities, and developing knowledge and making it accessible. 
3. Coordinate design activitiesAnother activity includes coordinating design activities across projects and Change Management activities, including coordinating schedules, resources, and conflicts, and suppliers and support teams where required. To be effective, all aspects of design should be integrated rather than designing them in isolation. This produces an integrated enterprise architecture that consists of a set of standards, designs and architectures that satisfy all management, operational, and functional requirements of the business.

To achieve an integrated design, the design coordination process needs to ensure good communication between design activities and parties concerned, that appropriate business and IT plans are available to designers, and that architectural documents, service models, service solution designs, and SDPs conform to architectural, governance, and other requirements. Lastly, there should be good communication and coordination with Service Transition processes to ensure proper handover. 
4. Manage design risks and issuesManaging design risks and issues by reducing them using risk assessment and management techniques is another activity. This activity monitors risks that occur in all design efforts as well as ones that occur in individual projects and change activities. 
5. Improve Service DesignAnother activity is improving Service Design by ensuring that the Service Design stage's goals and objectives are achieved. This is accomplished by monitoring and measuring the Service Design stage's performance and then identifying improvement opportunities based on objective information. To do this, the CSI approach can be used for continual process improvement where ideas can be entered into the CSI register. Later, if accepted, these ideas can be added to service improvement plans (SIPs). 

The second category that design coordination activities fall into relates to individual design activities.
1. Plan individual designsThe first activity is planning individual designs using standards and templates that have already been created and tested. Design activities must ensure that the full design or SDP delivers the required business outcomes. This not only includes the IT service itself, but also the costs and schedules associated with the service. Design activities should therefore consider the functionality, warranty, the service's effectiveness, and the requirements to operate, maintain, and support the service. 
2. Coordinate individual designsThe second activity is coordinating the individual designs that will more than likely be carried out by a project manager who can draw upon the body of experience developed by the process from other designs. It's possible that as the Service Design stage progresses, some information may require strategic decisions to be revisited, such as the Service Portfolio Management process and other processes.

Throughout the design activity, all requirements of service, business, and project change management should be adhered to and documented. Close attention must also be paid to scheduling both the service provider and customer resources to ensure accurate and complete designs. 
3. Monitor individual designsMonitoring individual designs to ensure that the proper methods are followed and ensuring that there are no conflicts with other design efforts is the third activity. This ensures design milestones are met, and comprehensive designs that support the achievement of the required business outcomes are developed. 
4. Review designsThe final step is reviewing designs to ensure they comply with standards and conventions, and that SDP requirements have been completed. Completed SDPs can be handed over for service transition. All issues should be documented and a decision made on whether the issues should be addressed during the Service Design or Service Transition stages. 



Question

Sequence the overall activities in the design coordination process.

Options:
A.Working on a common framework to improve the overall Service Design
B.Gathering information on activities in the Service Portfolio and Change Management process
C.Managing schedules, conflicts, and suppliers across all projects and changes
D.Using risk assessment and management techniques
E.Monitoring and measuring the performance of the Service Design stage

Answer

Correct answer(s):
Working on a common framework to improve the overall Service Design is ranked The first activity is to define and maintain policies and methods. To do this, you work in collaboration with the other processes within Service Design to ensure improvement of the overall Service Design.Gathering information on activities in the Service Portfolio and Change Management process is ranked The second activity is to plan design resources and capabilities by receiving information about the Service Portfolio and Change Management activities from business relationship managers and service owners.Managing schedules, conflicts, and suppliers across all projects and changes is ranked The third activity is to coordinate design activities – this includes coordinating and integrating schedules, resources, conflicts, and suppliers and support teams across the different activities taking place in Service Design.Using risk assessment and management techniques is ranked The fourth activity is to manage design risks and issues. This can be done using risk assessment and management techniques.Monitoring and measuring the performance of the Service Design stage is ranked The fifth activity is to improve the Service Design by ensuring that the goals and objectives of the Service Design stage are met.


Question

Sequence the order of the individual design activities in the design coordination process.

Options:
A.Ensuring the SDP delivers the desired business outcomes
B.Revisiting strategic decisions such as the Service Portfolio Management process
C.Ensuring that design milestones and business outcomes are met
D.Ensuring designs comply with standards and conventions

Answer

Correct answer(s):
Ensuring the SDP delivers the desired business outcomes is ranked The first activity is to plan individual designs using pre-developed standards and templates and taking the functionality, warranty, effectiveness, and requirements into consideration.Revisiting strategic decisions such as the Service Portfolio Management process is ranked The second activity is to coordinate the individual designs that project managers will carry out. The project manager will revisit strategic decisions such as the Service Portfolio Management process.Ensuring that design milestones and business outcomes are met is ranked The third activity is to monitor individual designs to ensure the right methods are used and there are no conflicts. It also ensures milestones are reached and that the designs support the intended business outcomes.Ensuring designs comply with standards and conventions is ranked The fourth activity is to review designs and verify that designs comply with standards and conventions, and that completed SDPs are handed over to Service Transition.
3. Challenges and risks

The design coordination process can be triggered by various things such as requests for change, the need to create new programs and projects, and the revision of the overall IT strategy.

Once triggered, design coordination obtains information from inputs such as
• change requests and records, and service charters 
• business and IT strategies 
• business impact analyses 
• Service Portfolios, Service Catalogs, and business requirements, and 
• governance, corporate, legal, and regulatory policies and requirements 

Other inputs include
• program, project, and change schedules 
• Configuration Management Systems (CMSs) and other management systems 
• enterprise architectures, and 
• measurement and metrics methods, and feedback from other processes 

The various design coordination process inputs produce outputs – for example, a set of service designs and SDPs, updates to change records, and enterprise architectures.

The inputs can also include revised management systems, processes, and measurement and metrics methods.

The design coordination process within the Service Design stage interfaces with other stages of the Service Lifecycle and their processes, including the Service Strategy and the Service Transition stages.

The Service Strategy stage uses information within the IT strategy and Service Portfolio, while the Service Transition stage involves handing over the design of the service solutions within the SDP.

The design coordination process interfaces with many other processes.
Change ManagementChange Management produces change requests and then interacts with the design coordination process by communicating what modifications the requests require - depending if it's within design coordination's scope. Change Management then authorizes and ensures the changes are carried out. Feedback is then provided, in the form of Post Implementation Reviews (PIRs), stating areas that the design coordination process needs to improve. 
Business Relationship ManagementBusiness Relationship Management interacts with the design coordination process by supplying it with information about desired business outcomes, and customer needs and priorities. It also acts as an interface between customers and the design coordination process. 
Service Level ManagementService Level Management (SLM), along with the design coordination, defines the service level requirements for new or changed services. It focuses mainly on the warranty levels that the solution design and design coordination activities require. This ensures the service solution design and SDP are appropriately addressed. 

The design coordination process interfaces with several other processes:
• Service Portfolio Management 
• Financial Management for IT services 
• Transition Planning and Support 
• Strategy Management for IT services 
• Supplier, Release, and Deployment Management 
• Service Validation and Testing, and 
• Availability, Capacity, IT Service Continuity, and Information Security Management processes 

The design coordination process has certain challenges that need to be closely monitored.

One of the major challenges is trying to maintain consistent quality across the Service Design stage, as a result of the work being carried out by different individuals, such as process owners, managers, and project managers.

The design coordination process also has to develop standards and practices and integrate them into the organization's project management methodology to ensure high-quality consistency.

Another challenge is ensuring that enough time and resources are allocated to activities and that individuals and groups are assigned the appropriate responsibilities to complete the job.

For example, design coordination activities might be assigned to a project manager, and key contributions may be handled by Service Design managers.

Lastly, the design coordination process should ensure that there is a balance in bureaucracy and autonomy.

For example, if there's too little bureaucracy, the designs may become inconsistent and fail to meet business outcome requirements.

If there's too much bureaucracy employees may spend too much time ensuring they follow and abide by processes and policies instead of doing their actual work.

The design coordination process also faces potential risks, such as
• a potential lack of skills and knowledge 
• a reluctance of business involvement 
• inadequate direction and strategy 
• insufficient information on business priorities and impacts, and 
• poorly defined requirements and desired outcomes 

Other risks that the design coordination process may face include
• project managers who communicate poorly or refuse to involve themselves in activities 
• relevant stakeholders like customers, users, and support and other operations staff refusing involvement 
• other Service Lifecycle stages not interacting or offering input into the design coordination process, and 
• poor designs that require more changes later due to efforts to try and save time and money 



Question

What are some of the risks and challenges that the design coordination process faces?

Options:
1.A risk is a lack of skills and knowledge
2.A risk is an inappropriate direction and strategy
3.A risk is insufficient interaction between the design coordination and other processes in the Service Lifecycle
4.A challenge is ensuring a fair balance of bureaucracy with autonomy
5.A challenge is getting other stages in the lifecycle to develop standards and practices
6.A risk is stakeholders becoming too involved
7.A challenge is randomly assigning roles and responsibilities to staff

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The design coordination process requires that all employees have the required knowledge and skills to perform the design activities.

Option 2: Correct. If the design coordination process has the wrong strategy in place and gives the wrong direction, it's likely that the project will fail to meet the desired business outcomes.

Option 3: Correct. A risk is that activities aren't managed in an appropriate way that allow for proper interaction between processes in the Service Lifecycle.

Option 4: Correct. One of the challenges of the design coordination process is ensuring there's enough bureaucracy so designs are consistent and meet business outcome requirements. Bureaucratic requirements should not be so much that employees spend more time following processes and policies than completing tasks.

Option 5: Incorrect. The design coordination process has to develop standards and practices, and integrate them into project management methodology to ensure consistency.

Option 6: Incorrect. One of the risks of the design coordination process is that stakeholders, such as customers, will refuse to show involvement in the process.

Option 7: Incorrect. The design coordination process has to ensure that the appropriate roles and responsibilities are assigned to the correct individuals or groups in order to get the job done.

Correct answer(s):

1. A risk is a lack of skills and knowledge
2. A risk is an inappropriate direction and strategy
3. A risk is insufficient interaction between the design coordination and other processes in the Service Lifecycle
4. A challenge is ensuring a fair balance of bureaucracy with autonomy

4. Summary

The scope of design coordination consists of activities such as assisting and supporting projects and Change Management activities, maintaining policies, resources, and capabilities, and producing and handing over SDPs to Service Transition. It excludes activities and processes outside the Service Design stage.

Design coordination activities can be overall activities, include defining and maintaining policies and methods, planning design resources and capabilities, and coordinating design activities. Individual design coordination activities include planning and coordinating individual designs, and reviewing designs.

The design coordination process includes challenges such as maintaining high-quality designs and SDPs, allocating time, resources, roles, and responsibilities, and ensuring that policies are not overly bureaucratic. Risks to design coordination include a lack of skills or knowledge, a reluctance for involvement from businesses, stakeholders, and staff, inadequate direction, strategy, and information, and poorly defined requirements.

Back to top
 

Service Catalog and Availability Management
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize the characteristics of the Service Catalog
•recognize which Availability Management formula to use in given scenarios 
•recognize the responsibilities of the Service Catalog manager and the availability manager
 
1. Characteristics of the Service Catalog

The Service Catalog is produced and maintained by the Service Catalog Management process, which is one of the Service Design processes.

The objective of Service Catalog Management is to ensure that there is a central, accurate, and consistent source of data about all operational services and about all services being transitioned to the live environment.

The Service Catalog is an important part of the overall Service Portfolio. It provides a key, customer-facing view of the services on offer. 

The Service Catalog establishes the value and potential that customers can expect from an IT service provider.

A newly created Service Catalog characteristically consists of either a matrix, a table, or a spreadsheet.

The Service Catalog should contain details of all services that are currently provided and of services being prepared for transition to the live environment.

Once a service has the chartered status – indicating that it's being developed for use by customers – Service Design produces the specifications for the service. It is at this point that the service should be added to the Service Catalog.

The Service Catalog should summarize the characteristics of the service, and contain details of its customers and maintainers.

The Service Catalog has two aspects:
the Business Service Catalog, andThe Business Service Catalog contains details of all the IT services delivered to customers, including the relationships of the services to business units and details of the business processes that depend on the services. This is the customer view of the Service Catalog.
the Technical Service CatalogFor each IT service, the Technical Service Catalog details relationships to the supporting services, shared services, elements, and Configuration Items (CIs) necessary to provide the service to the organization. The Technical Service Catalog should support the Business Service Catalog, and is not a part of the customer view of the Service Catalog.



Question

Identify characteristics of the Service Catalog.

Options:
1.It contains details of services only once they have been chartered
2.It describes the characteristics of each service, as well as each service's customers
3.It contains details only of operational services
4.It is available only to employees of the service provider
5.It's the part of the Service Portfolio that establishes the value of services for customers
6.It includes a catalog that's available to customers and a supporting, technical catalog

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The Service Catalog contains details only of services that are already operational or that are being prepared for transition to the live environment. It focuses on services developed for use by customers.

Option 2: Correct. The Service Catalog should include business-related and technical details of each service developed for use by customers, and details of the customers and maintainers of the services.

Option 3: Incorrect. The Service Catalog should contain details of all services currently being prepared for transition to the live environment, and of all services that are already operational.

Option 4: Incorrect. The Business Service Catalog – which is one aspect of the Service Catalog – is available to customers. It identifies the value and potential of each service in terms of customers' business needs.

Option 5: Correct. The Service Catalog identifies all services developed for use by customers and describes these services in terms of their value and potential for customers. It identifies business units and details of the business processes that depend on the services.

Option 6: Correct. The Service Catalog includes the Business Service Catalog, which is visible to customers and describes all available services. It also includes the Technical Service Catalog, which provides supporting information for each service and isn't provided to customers.

Correct answer(s):

1. It contains details of services only once they have been chartered
2. It describes the characteristics of each service, as well as each service's customers
5. It's the part of the Service Portfolio that establishes the value of services for customers
6. It includes a catalog that's available to customers and a supporting, technical catalog



Question

Which statement accurately describes the objective of Service Catalog Management?

Options:
1.To provide a central, accurate source of data about all services your organization delivers to customers
2.To gather information from the Service Catalog and disperse it to customers
3.To provide central, accurate service requirements for inclusion in the Service Catalog

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The objective of Service Catalog Management is to provide a central, accurate, and consistent source of data about all operational services and about all services being transitioned to the live environment. This involves producing and managing the Service Catalog.

Option 2: Incorrect. Service Catalog Management involves producing and maintaining the Service Catalog – including the Business Service Catalog, which is available to customers. However, it doesn't involve actually distributing the data in the Service Catalog to customers.

Option 3: Incorrect. The Service Level Management process – rather than Service Catalog Management – involves identifying service requirements. Service Catalog Management focuses on producing and managing the Service Catalog, which contains details of all operational services and services due to be transitioned to the live environment.

Correct answer(s):

1. To provide a central, accurate source of data about all services your organization delivers to customers

2. Availability Management

In Service Design, the Availability Management process focuses on ensuring that all operational services meet the agreed availability targets.

It is also responsible for ensuring that new or changed services are designed in such a way as to meet their intended targets, without compromising the performance of other services.

These are the objectives of the Availability Management process:
• to produce and maintain an appropriate and up-to-date Availability Plan that accurately reflects current and future needs of the organization 
• to offer advice and guidance to all other areas of the organization and IT on availability-related issues 
• to ensure that availability achievements meet or exceed targets 
• to assist with the diagnosis and resolution of availability-related incidents and problems 
• to evaluate the influence of any changes on the Availability Plan and on the performance and capacity of all services and resources, and 
• to ensure that all cost-effective measures to improve the availability of services are implemented 



Question

Identify some of the important objectives of the Availability Management process.

Options:
1.To ensure that service availability meets or exceeds targets
2.To provide a single, consistent source of information about all available services
3.To ensure that all cost-effective measures for improving the availability of services are implemented 
4.To produce and maintain a plan that accurately portrays the past and current availability needs of the organization

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The Availability Management process aims to ensure that all operational services meet the desired availability targets and that new or changed services are designed in such a way as to meet their intended targets.

Option 2: Incorrect. Providing a single, consistent source of information about all available services is the aim of Service Catalog Management, rather than of Availability Management.

Option 3: Correct. As well as ensuring that all services meet their agreed targets without compromising the performance of other services, Availability Management aims to ensure that the availability of services is continually improved. 

Option 4: Incorrect. The Availability Management process aims to produce and maintain an up-to-date, appropriate Availability Plan that accurately portrays the current and future needs of the organization.

Correct answer(s):

1. To ensure that service availability meets or exceeds targets
3. To ensure that all cost-effective measures for improving the availability of services are implemented 

The success of the Availability Management process relies on the measurement, monitoring, analysis, and reporting of three aspects of a service:
availabilityThe availability of a service refers to the ability of a service to fulfill its agreed purpose at the correct time. Service availability is usually measured as a percentage.
reliability, andThe reliability of a service refers to the duration for which it can perform its function without interruption.
maintainabilityThe maintainability of a service refers to how quickly and effectively the service returns to normal after a failure.

The Availability Management process incorporates two main elements, namely reactive activities and proactive activities.

Reactive activities involve actions such as monitoring, measuring, analyzing and managing all occurrences and problems regarding unavailability. These activities are primarily related to operational roles.

Proactive activities refer to the planning, design and improvement of availability that is carried out proactively. These activities are predominantly concerned with the roles of planning and designing.

The Availability Management process focuses on both overall service availability and component availability.

If components aren't readily available, this will impact the overall service that incorporates them. So it's important to manage component availability to ensure that service availability and unavailability can be managed effectively.

As well as managing service and component availability, the Availability Management process focuses on serviceability. This refers to the ability of a third-party supplier to meet the terms and conditions of a contract.

Contract terms may include agreed reliability, maintainability, and availability levels for both services and their supporting components.

To measure the availability of a service, you can subtract the amount of downtime from the Agreed Service Time (AST), divide the result by the AST, and then multiply this number by 100 to obtain a percentage.

Suppose your IT organization provides an antivirus software service. The service has an AST of 8,760 hours per year. In the course of a year, the service has had four hours of downtime.

To calculate the availability of the service, you subtract 4 from 8,760, divide the result by 8,760, and then multiply by 100. This gives the service an availability of 99.95%.

The reliability of a service can be measured in either of these units:
• Mean Time Between Service Incidents (MTBSI), or 
• Mean Time Between Failures (MTBF) 

To calculate the reliability of a service in MTBSI, you divide the available time in hours by the number of breaks in service availability.

For example, your organization's antivirus software has 8,760 hours of time available. A total of four breaks have occurred.

To calculate the reliability of this service in MTBSI, you divide 8,760 by 4. This gives you a reliability of 2,190 hours MTBSI.

To calculate the reliability of a service in MTBF, you subtract the total downtime in hours from the available time in hours, and divide the result by the number of breaks.

Say the antivirus service had four hours downtime within the available time of 8,760 hours, and a total of four breaks.

To calculate the reliability of the antivirus service in MTBF, you subtract 4 from 8,760 and divide the result by 4. This gives the service a reliability of 2,189 hours MTBF.

The maintainability of a service is usually measured in Mean Time to Restore Service (MTRS). You calculate the MTRS for a service by dividing the total downtime in hours by the number of service breaks.

The antivirus service had four hours downtime and four breaks.

To calculate the maintainability of this service, you divide 4 by 4 – giving a maintainability value of one hour.



Question

Match each formula with what you use it to calculate.

Options:
A.Divide the available time in hours by the number of breaks
B.Subtract the total downtime in hours from the available time in hours, and divide the result by the number of breaks
C.Subtract the amount of downtime from the Agreed Service Time (AST), divide the result by the AST, and multiply by 100
D.Divide the total downtime in hours by the number of breaks

Targets:
1.The duration for which the service can perform its agreed function without interruption, based on the mean time between service incidents
2.The duration for which the service can perform its agreed function without interruption, based on the mean time between failures
3.The ability of the service to fulfill its agreed purpose when it is required
4.How quickly and effectively the service returns to normal after failures

Answer

The duration for which the service can perform its agreed function without interruption identifies the service's reliability. To calculate reliability using Mean Time Between Service Incidents (MTBSI), you divide the available time in hours by the number of breaks in service.

The reliability of a service is the duration for which it can perform its agreed function without interruption. To calculate service reliability using Mean Time Between Failures (MTBF), you subtract the total downtime in hours from the available time in hours, and divide the result by the number of breaks.

The ability of a service to fulfill its agreed purpose when required is the service's availability. To calculate availability, you subtract the amount of downtime from the Agreed Service Time (AST) for the service, divide the result by the AST, and multiply by 100 to obtain a percentage.

The maintainability of a service is the speed and effectiveness at which it returns to normal after a failure. You calculate maintainability by dividing the total downtime in hours by the number of breaks in the service.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

3. Service Catalog manager

The quality of the Service Catalog and Availability Management processes depends greatly on the role played by the respective managers.

It is typically the responsibility of the Service Catalog manager to produce and maintain the Service Catalog.

The duties of the Service Catalog manager are to ensure that
• all relevant services are recorded in the Service Catalog 
• the information in the Service Catalog is accurate and up-to-date 
• the information in the Service Catalog is consistent with that of the Service Portfolio, and 
• the information in the Service Catalog is protected and backed up 

The availability manager is typically responsible for ensuring that all the specified aims of Availability Management are met.

The responsibilities of the availability manager include
• ensuring that all services deliver the levels of availability established in Service Level Agreements (SLAs) 
• ensuring that all new services are designed to deliver the levels of availability required by the organization 
• validating that final designs meet the minimum required levels of availability 
• assisting with the exploration and diagnosis of all incidents and problems that cause availability issues or unavailability of services or components 
• participating in IT infrastructure design, including establishing the availability requirements for hardware and software, and 
• establishing the reliability, maintainability, and serviceability requirements for supplied components 



Question

Match each process manager to the relevant responsibility. More than one responsibility may match to a process manager.

Options:
A.Service Catalog manager
B.Availability manager

Targets:
1.Ensures that the Service Catalog contains all relevant services
2.Ensures that the Service Catalog information reflects the information in the Service Portfolio
3.Establishes the reliability for supplied components

Answer

The Service Catalog manager ensures that relevant services are recorded in the Service Catalog.

The Service Catalog manager ensures that the information in the Service Catalog is consistent with that of the Service Portfolio.

The availability manager is responsible for making sure supplied components required for delivering IT services are reliable.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option A

Target 3 = Option B

4. Summary

The Service Catalog provides details of all operational services and all services being prepared for transition to the live environment. It includes a Business Service Catalog, which is visible to customers, and a Technology Service Catalog. The Service Catalog is produced and maintained through the Service Catalog Management process.

The Availability Management process aims to ensure that all services meet their agreed availability targets. This process relies on the measurement of the availability, reliability, and maintenance of each service.

The Service Catalog manager is responsible for producing and maintaining the Service Catalog, and the availability manager is responsible for ensuring that all the availability aims of Service Management are met.

Back to top
 

Measure Availability, Reliability, and Maintainability
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•calculate availability, reliability, and maintainability
 
1. Calculating availability, maintainability, and reliability

Back to top
 

Capacity Management and Supplier Management
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize the focus of Capacity Management subprocesses
•recognize the components of the Supplier and Contracts Database
•recognize the responsibilities of the capacity manager and the supplier manager
 
1. Capacity Management

Capacity Management is first supported in the Service Strategy stage. During this stage, capacity considerations affect Pattern of Business Activity (PBA), Line of Service (LOS), and Service Level Package (SLP) development.

Capacity Management is a process that extends throughout the Service Lifecycle. However, this process is an important consideration in the Service Design stage.

Capacity Management is responsible for ensuring that IT processes are planned and scheduled to provide a consistent level of performance that aligns with current and future business needs.

These are some of the objectives of Capacity Management:
• ensuring that cost-justifiable IT capacity aligns with agreed business needs in all areas of IT 
• providing a point of focus and management for all capacity and performance-related issues 
• producing and maintaining an appropriate and up-to-date capacity plan that portrays business needs, and 
• providing advice and guidance for all capacity and performance-related issues 

Additional aims of the Capacity Management process are to ensure that service performance achievements meet their agreed performance targets, and to assist with the diagnosis and resolution of performance and capacity-related incidents and problems.

Capacity Management strives to measure the effect that any change has on the capacity plan, and on the performance and capacity of all services and resources. It also ensures that deliberate measures to improve the performance of services are implemented as long as its costs can be justified.

A capacity plan records levels of utilization of resources as well as performance of service. Once the service strategy and plans have been reviewed, the capacity plan can then also be used to anticipate future requirements for IT resources. The plans should include any proposals that have been measured in relation to required resource, cost, benefits and impact.

A capacity plan typically consists of current services, technology and resources, the levels of capacity within an organization and any identified problems relating to over-or-under capacity. It also includes the extent to which service levels are reached and any changes since the last copy of the plan.



Question

What are some of the objectives of Capacity Management?

Options:
1.To measure the effect that a change has on the capacity plan, and the performance and capacity of all services and resources
2.To provide a point of focus and management for all capacity and performance-related issues
3.To ensure that IT capacity is continually increased in every possible way
4.To produce and maintain a capacity plan that reflects the needs of the customer
5.To manage the improvement of service performance

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Capacity Management aims to measure the effect that any change has on the capacity plan, and on the performance and capacity of all services and resources.

Option 2: Correct. Capacity Management aims to ensure that IT processes are planned and scheduled to provide a consistent level of performance that aligns with current and future business needs. It provides a point of focus for managing service capacity and performance-related issues and problems.

Option 3: Incorrect. Capacity Management aims to ensure that cost-justifiable IT capacity, that aligns with agreed business needs, is present in all areas of IT.

Option 4: Incorrect. Capacity Management aims to produce and maintain a capacity plan that depicts the current and future needs of the business.

Option 5: Correct. Capacity Management ensures that deliberate measures to improve the performance of services are implemented, and ensures that IT capacity aligns with business needs.

Correct answer(s):

1. To measure the effect that a change has on the capacity plan, and the performance and capacity of all services and resources
2. To provide a point of focus and management for all capacity and performance-related issues
5. To manage the improvement of service performance

Capacity Management relies on a delicate balance of
costs against resource needsCapacity Management needs to balance cost against resource needs. Any purchased processing capacity should be cost-justifiable in terms of business needs, and resources should be put to use most efficiently.
supply against demandCapacity Management needs to ensure a balance between supply and demand for IT capacity. The available supply of IT processing power should match current and future business demands. It may be necessary to manage or influence the demand for a particular resource.

Capacity Management can be a very technical, complex, and demanding process. In order for this process to succeed in reaching its objectives, three supporting subprocesses are needed.

These subprocesses are
1. Business Capacity Management 
2. Service Capacity Management, and 
3. Component Capacity Management 

Business Capacity Management turns business needs and plans into requirements for service and IT infrastructure. This ensures that future business requirements for IT services are quantified, designed, planned, and implemented in a timely fashion.

Future requirements come from the detail of new processes and service requirements, changes, improvements, and growth in the existing services outlined in the Service Strategy and Service Portfolio.

Future requirements can be forecasted, modeled, trended, or predicted by using existing data on the current resource utilization of various services and resources.

Service Capacity Management aims to manage, control, and predict the end-to-end performance and capacity of operational IT service usage and workloads.

It also ensures that the performance of all services is monitored and measured, and that the collected data is recorded, analyzed, and reported. Automated thresholds are used where possible to identify breached or threatened Service Level Agreements (SLAs).

When necessary, employees with knowledge of technology used in the delivery of end-to-end IT service should perform proactive and reactive actions to ensure that service performance meets the agreed targets.

Component Capacity Management focuses on the management, control, and prediction of the performance, utilization, and capacity of IT technology components.

It ensures that the components of the IT infrastructure that have limited resources are monitored and measured. Collected data from these components should be recorded, analyzed, and reported.

Here too, automated thresholds should be used to manage all components. This ensures the speedy identification of breached or threatened component usage or performance so that cost-effective solutions can be implemented.



Question

Match each subprocess to the Capacity Management element it focuses on.

Options:
A.Business Capacity Management
B.Service Capacity Management
C.Component Capacity Management

Targets:
1.Business needs and plans are turned into requirements for service and IT infrastructure
2.Performance of all services is monitored and measured, and data is recorded, analyzed, and reported
3.IT infrastructure components with limited resources are monitored and measured

Answer

The Business Capacity Management subprocess aims to ensure that future business requirements for IT services are quantified, designed, planned, and implemented in a timely fashion.

Service Capacity Management aims to manage, control, and predict the end-to-end performance and capacity of operational IT service usage and workloads.

Component Capacity Management concentrates on the management, control, and prediction of the performance, utilization, and capacity of IT technology components.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

2. Supplier Management

In Service Design, the Supplier Management process aims to ensure that suppliers meet the terms, conditions, and targets of their contracts and agreements. It's also implemented as a means to attain a higher value for money from suppliers and the services they offer.

The Supplier Management process is driven by a supplier strategy and policy identified during the Service Strategy stage. The consistent and effective implementation of Supplier Management depends on the establishment of a Supplier and Contract Database (SCD), as well as on clearly defined roles and responsibilities.

The SCD should record all supplier and contract details, including the types of services or products provided by each supplier.

It then serves as a comprehensive reference for use across all Supplier Management procedures and activities.

A comprehensive SCD provides information in the areas of
• supplier categorization 
• establishment of new suppliers, their assessment, and the establishment of associated contracts 
• contract renewal and termination, and 
• management of supplier and contract performance 

Supplier Management aims to manage all suppliers and contracts needed to support the provision of IT services.

Its objectives are to
• secure good value for money from suppliers and contracts 
• align contracts with suppliers to business needs and targets 
• manage relationships with suppliers 
• manage supplier performance, and 
• maintain the organization's supplier policy and supporting SCD 

The Supplier Management process aims to negotiate and agree on contracts with suppliers and to manage these contracts through their lifecycles.



Question

Identify some of the objectives of the Supplier Management process.

Options:
1.Getting good value for money from suppliers and contracts
2.Negotiating contracts with suppliers and managing these contracts through their lifecycles
3.Creating and maintaining a supplier strategy
4.Establishing business needs and targets

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The Supplier Management process aims to optimize the value of suppliers and contracts used to support the provision of IT services.

Option 2: Correct. The Supplier Management process aims to manage all suppliers and contracts needed to support the provision of IT services. This involves negotiating contracts and managing them throughout their lifecycles.

Option 3: Incorrect. The Supplier Management process is driven by the supplier strategy and policy provided by the Service Strategy. It doesn't involve developing a new or separate supplier strategy.

Option 4: Incorrect. Supplier Management strives to ensure that underlying contracts with suppliers align to business needs and targets – it does not establish these needs and targets.

Correct answer(s):

1. Getting good value for money from suppliers and contracts
2. Negotiating contracts with suppliers and managing these contracts through their lifecycles

The contracts managed by the Supplier Management process are – like all contracts – legally-binding agreements between two or more parties.

A formal contract should be used when an organization has external supply arrangements that make a significant contribution to the delivery and development of the business. This type of contract is also used for high-value and strategic relationships.

The elements of a basic contract include
basic terms and conditionsThe basic terms and conditions of a contract outline the duration of the contract, the parties and locations involved, and the scope of the contract, as well as definitions and the commercial basis of the contract.
service description and scopeThe service description and scope section of the contract details the functionality of the provided services and the extent of the agreement. It also considers all constraints – such as performance, availability, capacity, technical interface, and security constraints – on service delivery. Service functionality may be explicitly defined, or – in the case of well-established services – included by reference to other established documents like the Service Portfolio or the Service Catalog.
service standards, andThe service standards outlined in a contract define the minimum acceptable standards and service measures regarding performance and quality.
management informationManagement information is all the information about operational performance that must be reported by the supplier. Management information should concentrate on the most important – or headline – reporting measures on which the relationship will be assessed. Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and balanced scorecards may form the core of reported performance information.

A basic contract contains workload ranges, which are the volume limits within which service standards apply or for which specific pricing rules apply.

The responsibilities and dependencies described in the contract depict the obligations of the organization and the supplier regarding communication, contacts, and escalation.

The service levels outlined in the contract must be realistic, measurable, and aligned to the organization's needs. The contract should also support the targets agreed on in Service Level Requirements (SLRs) and SLAs.

Maintaining the SCD forms an integral part of the Supplier Management process.

Supplier Management is responsible for recording all supplier and contract details, as well as details of the type of service or product provided by each supplier, in the SCD. It is also responsible for recording the relationships of contracted services or components with other associated Configuration Items (CIs).

The SCD assists with the following integral Supplier Management activities:
• categorization of suppliers 
• evaluation and setup of new suppliers and contracts 
• establishment of new suppliers 
• management of supplier and contract performance, and 
• contract renewal and termination 



Question

The Supplier Management process is responsible for maintaining the SCD, which in turn supports several activities in the process.

What should the SCD contain?

Options:
1.All supplier and contract details
2.Details of an SLA
3.The relationships of contracted services or components to other service elements
4.Details of the types of service and products provided to customers

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The SCD should contain all supplier and contract details, including details of the type of service or product provided by each supplier. The Supplier Management process uses this information to categorize and manage suppliers and contracts.

Option 2: Incorrect. An SLA is an agreement between the IT service provider and the customer. It is not contained in the SCD, which contains information for managing suppliers and contracts.

Option 3: Correct. In addition to recording the details of suppliers and contracts, the SCD should record the relationships of contracted services or components with other associated CIs.

Option 4: Incorrect. The SCD contains the details of the types of services and products provided by suppliers. It does not contain any information about customers.

Correct answer(s):

1. All supplier and contract details
3. The relationships of contracted services or components to other service elements

3. Supplier and capacity managers

The Capacity and Supplier Management processes are the responsibility of the capacity manager and supplier manager respectively.

The responsibilities of the capacity manager include
• identifying capacity requirements with the service level manager 
• understanding the existing use of IT infrastructure and services, as well as the maximum capacity of each component 
• performing sizing on all suggested new services and systems to determine capacity requirements, and 
• predicting future capacity requirements 

Other responsibilities of the capacity manager include ensuring that there is adequate IT capacity to meet required levels of service, that senior IT management is appropriately guided on how to match capacity and demand, and that the use of existing capacity is optimized.

The capacity manager is also responsible for the production, regular review, and revision of the capacity plan, and for identifying current usage and predicted requirements during the period covered by the plan.

The supplier manager is responsible for ensuring that all the objectives of the Supplier Management process are met.

The responsibilities of the supplier manager include
• supporting the development and review of SLAs, contracts, agreements, and any other documents for third-party suppliers 
• ensuring good value for money from all IT suppliers and contracts 
• ensuring that all IT supplier processes are consistent and interface with supplier strategies, processes, and standard terms and conditions 
• maintaining and reviewing the SCD 
• regularly performing a review and risk analysis of all suppliers and contracts, and 
• ensuring that any supporting contracts, agreements, or SLAs developed align with those of the organization 



Question

Match each responsibility to the appropriate manager. More than one responsibility may match to one manager.

Options:
A.Understanding the existing use of IT services
B.Performing sizing on all suggested new services
C.Ensuring good value for money from contracts
D.Performing a review and risk analysis of existing contracts

Targets:
1.Capacity manager
2.Supplier manager

Answer

The capacity manager is responsible for analyzing the way in which existing IT services are being utilized, and performing sizing analysis on suggested services to determine capacity requirements.

The supplier manager is responsible for ensuring that good value is obtained for the organization from its suppliers and through its contracts. The supplier manager is also responsible for regularly performing risk analyses of suppliers and contracts.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A, Option B

Target 2 = Option C, Option D

4. Summary

Capacity Management is the process that includes planning and scheduling IT processes to provide a level of performance that aligns with business needs. This process depends on balancing costs against resources needed and supply against demand. Capacity Management consists of three subprocesses – Business Capacity Management, Service Capacity Management, and Component Capacity Management.

Supplier Management is the process that includes ensuring that suppliers meet the terms, conditions, and targets of contracts and that the greatest value for money is attained from suppliers and contracts. Supplier Management activities are supported by the information recorded in the SCD.

The capacity and supplier managers are respectively responsible for the different tasks involved in the Capacity Management and Supplier Management processes.

Back to top
 

Information Security Management and ITSCM
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize the components of the ISM and the objectives of the ISMS elements
•sequence the stages of ITSCM Lifecycle
•recognize the responsibilities of the security manager and the IT service continuity manager
 
1. Information Security Management

In Service Design, Information Security Management (ISM) provides the focus for all aspects of IT security. It involves management activity within the corporate governance framework. It provides strategic direction for security activities and ensures that all objectives are achieved.

It also ensures that information security risks are managed appropriately and that enterprise information resources are responsibly used.

The objectives of ISM are to
ensure that agreed levels of service availability are supportedISM aims to ensure that agreed levels of service availability are supported. It helps do this by ensuring that usable information is provided when required, and that the providing systems can resist relevant attacks and recover from or prevent failures.
protect the confidentiality of data and systemsISM aims to protect the confidentiality of data and systems. This is accomplished by ensuring that information is disclosed only to those people who have a right to see and use it.
protect the integrity of information, andISM aims to protect the integrity of information. It helps do this by ensuring that information is complete, accurate, and protected from unauthorized modification.
ensure authenticity and nonrepudiation of transactions and informationISM aims to ensure the authenticity and nonrepudiation of all business transactions and information trades between enterprises or with partners, to ensure that the organization is deemed trustworthy.



Question

What are the objectives of the ISM process?

Options:
1.To protect provided information from unauthorized modification
2.To disclose information only to those authorized
3.To ensure the authenticity of all business transactions and information trades
4.To achieve agreed service availability levels
5.To verify service details before they're included in the Service Catalog
6.To develop information security technology

Answer

Option 1: Correct. ISM strives to ensure the integrity of information. This involves ensuring that information is complete, accurate, and protected from unauthorized modification.

Option 2: Correct. ISM aims to protect the confidentiality of information.

Option 3: Correct. ISM aims to ensure the trustworthiness of business transactions and information trades between enterprises or with partners. This involves ensuring the authenticity and nonrepudiation of the transactions.

Option 4: Correct. ISM aims to ensure that agreed service availability levels are achieved. This involves ensuring that needed information is provided on time and by preventing or recovering from failures.

Option 5: Incorrect. The Service Catalog Management process – rather than ISM – is responsible for producing and maintaining accurate information in the Service Catalog.

Option 6: Incorrect. The ISM process aims to ensure the availability, confidentiality, integrity, authenticity, and nonrepudiation of information. It is not responsible for the development of the information security technology used to meet these aims.

Correct answer(s):

1. To protect provided information from unauthorized modification
2. To disclose information only to those authorized
3. To ensure the authenticity of all business transactions and information trades
4. To achieve agreed service availability levels

It is important to have a comprehensive ISM policy because, to be effective, information security must align closely with business security and business needs.

The necessary security measures for monitoring and enforcing the ISM policy should also be in place.

Effective ISM entails managing security risks, monitoring processes to ensure compliance, and providing feedback on effectiveness. It should also include developing a communications strategy and providing any necessary training on security policies and measures.

An effective ISM process and framework should include the following components:
• an information security policy 
• an Information Security Management System (ISMS) 
• a comprehensive security strategy that aligns to business objectives, strategies, and plans 
• an effective security organizational structure 
• security controls to support the information security policy 
• monitoring processes aimed at ensuring compliance and providing feedback on efficacy 
• a communications strategy, and 
• a security training plan 

The information security policy should consider all elements of a security strategy, and must align with business needs. It may include several more specific security policies.

Because the information security policy defines the entire organization's attitude towards security matters, it should apply across the organization. The policies it includes must be appropriate and supported by senior management.

Some examples of what the information security policy may include are
• an overall policy for securing information 
• a policy defining the difference between appropriate and inappropriate use of IT assets 
• an access control policy 
• a password control policy, and 
• an e-mail policy 

The ISMS provides a system for creating a cost-effective information security program that aligns with business objectives.

It contains standards, management procedures, and guidelines that support the information security policy.

The ISMS consists of five main elements.
ControlThe control element of the ISMS aims to establish a management framework that can initiate and manage information security in the organization.

It aims to establish an organization structure capable of preparing, approving, and implementing the information security policy.

It also aims to allocate responsibilities and establish and control associated documentation.

PlanThe plan element of the ISMS aims to identify and create the appropriate security measures, based on knowledge of organizational needs.

To determine organizational security needs, you gather information from sources such as business and service risk assessments, plans, and strategies, Service Level Agreements (SLAs), and Operational Level Agreements (OLAs).

You also need to consider the legal, moral, and ethical responsibilities associated with information security, the amount of funding available, prevailing organization culture, and attitudes to security.

ImplementThe implement element of ISMS aims to implement the appropriate procedures, tools, and controls to underpin the information security policy.

This involves managing awareness and training in security needs, accounting for assets and classifying information, establishing personnel, physical, and system security, managing access rights, and implementing procedures for handling security incidents.

This element should also include a mechanism for ensuring continual improvement in ISM. 
EvaluateThe evaluate element of ISMS aims to supervise and check compliance with the information security policy. This involves performing regular audits of the technical security of IT systems, and providing required information to external auditors and regulators. 
MaintainThe maintain element of the ISMS strives to improve the implementation of security measures and controls, and specified security agreements. 

The outcomes of ISM that is properly implemented are
• strategic alignment between IT and the business 
• value delivery 
• improved risk management 
• improved performance management 
• improved resource management, and 
• business process assurance 



Question

Which of the following options are components of effective ISM?

Options:
1.An effective security organizational structure
2.An ISMS
3.A strategy to balance costs against resource requirements
4.A Service Catalog
5.An information security policy
6.A comprehensive security strategy
7.Security controls to support the information security policy

Answer

Option 1: Correct. It's important for an organization to have a good security organization structure in place to support ISM activities.

Option 2: Correct. The ISMS is the system used by ISM to provide a basis for the creation of a cost-effective information security program that aligns with business objectives.

Option 3: Incorrect. Balancing costs against resource requirements is a component of effective Capacity Management, not ISM.

Option 4: Incorrect. A Service Catalog is a component of Service Catalog Management, which is separate to ISM.

Option 5: Correct. ISM uses an information security policy and other specific security policies to effectively manage information security.

Option 6: Correct. An ISM framework consists of a comprehensive security strategy that aligns with business objectives, strategies, and plans.

Option 7: Correct. ISM uses a set of security controls to support the information security policy. Other components of an effective ISM are an information security policy, an ISMS, a comprehensive security strategy, and an effective security organizational structure.

Correct answer(s):

1. An effective security organizational structure
2. An ISMS
5. An information security policy
6. A comprehensive security strategy
7. Security controls to support the information security policy



Question

ISMS is the framework in which ISM performs its activities. It is comprised of five elements, each of which is associated with particular objectives.

Match each element to an appropriate objective.

Options:
A.Control
B.Plan
C.Implement
D.Evaluate
E.Maintain

Targets:
1.Establishing a management framework that can initiate and manage information security
2.Identifying and creating appropriate security measures
3.Facilitating the use of appropriate procedures, tools, and controls
4.Supervising and checking compliance with the information security policy
5.Improving the implementation of security measures and controls

Answer

The control element aims to establish an organization structure capable of preparing, approving, and implementing the information security policy.

The plan element aims to gather information from sources such as business and service risk assessments, plans, and strategies, SLAs and OLAs to determine organizational security needs.

The implement element aims to manage awareness and training in security needs, account for assets and classify information, establish personnel, physical, and system security, manage access rights, and implement procedures for handling security incidents.

The evaluate element aims to perform regular audits of the technical security of IT systems, and provide the required information to external auditors and regulators.

The maintain element aims to improve the implementation of security measures and controls, as well as the specified security agreements.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

Target 5 = Option E

2. IT Service Continuity Management

The IT Service Continuity Management (ITSCM) process supports the overall Business Continuity Management (BCM) process by ensuring that the required IT technical and service facilities can recommence within required business timescales.

The objectives of ITSCM are to
• maintain IT Service Continuity and recovery plans that support overall Business Continuity Plans (BCPs) 
• complete regular Business Impact Analysis (BIA) exercises to ensure that all continuity plans align with changing business requirements 
• perform regular risk analysis and management exercises, especially together with the business and the Availability Management and Security Management processes 
• give advice and guidance to other business and IT areas on all continuity and recovery-related issues, and 
• ensure that appropriate continuity and recovery mechanisms are in place to meet agreed business continuity targets 

ITSCM aims to assess the effect of any changes on the IT service continuity plans and IT recovery plans.

It also strives to ensure that cost-justifiable, proactive measures to improve service availability are implemented.

Furthermore, it aims to establish the necessary contracts with suppliers – in alignment with the Supplier Management process – to provide the recovery capability needed to support all continuity plans.



Question

Identify some of the objectives of ITSCM.

Options:
1.To guide other business and IT areas on continuity and recovery-related issues
2.To ensure that appropriate continuity and recovery mechanisms are in place to meet agreed business continuity targets
3.To ensure that information is disclosed only to authorized personnel
4.To ensure that business transactions and information trades are trustworthy

Answer

Option 1: Correct. ITSCM provides advice and guidance to other business and IT areas with regard to continuity and recovery-related issues.

Option 2: Correct. ITSCM supports the BCM process by ensuring that the required IT technical and service facilities can recommence within required and agreed business timescales.

Option 3: Incorrect. Protecting the confidentiality of information is an objective of ISM. ITSCM aims to support the overall BCM process.

Option 4: Incorrect. Ensuring the authenticity and nonrepudiation of all business transactions is an ISM objective. ITSCM strives to support the BCM process.

Correct answer(s):

1. To guide other business and IT areas on continuity and recovery-related issues
2. To ensure that appropriate continuity and recovery mechanisms are in place to meet agreed business continuity targets

ITSCM is a cyclic process that should occur throughout the Service Lifecycle, to ensure that newly developed service continuity and recovery plans are kept aligned with BCPs and business priorities.



Graphic

A flowchart displays the cyclical process of IT Service Continuity Management (ITSCM). At initiation, Business Continuity Management (BCM) starts with business continuity strategy, then moves on to business continuity plans, and then ongoing operation. At initiation, ITSCM starts with requirements and strategy (which links to BCM's business continuity strategy), then moves on to implementation (which links to BCM's business continuity plans), and then ongoing operation (which links to BCM's ongoing operation and back to ITSCM's initiation). Invocation relates to both BCM and ITSCM's ongoing operation. Continuity event links to invocation.

The ITSCM lifecycle includes four stages:
initiationInitiation is the first stage of the lifecycle. It applies to the whole organization and includes activities such as policy setting, specifying terms of reference, allocating resources, defining the project organization and control structure, and agreeing on project and quality plans.
requirements and strategySetting business requirements and strategy is the second stage of the lifecycle. Business Impact Analysis (BIA) and risk assessment are also performed in this stage, and required risk reduction measures and recovery options are recorded.
implementation, andImplementation is the third stage of the lifecycle, in which the strategy has been approved and the IT service continuity plan is produced in alignment with the BCP. The activities in this stage include developing ITSCM plans that ensure that the necessary information for critical systems, services, and facilities will still be provided or will be reinstated within a reasonable period after a failure.
ongoing operationOngoing operation is the final stage of the lifecycle. It's activities include raising awareness through education and training, performing reviews and testing, and Change Management.

The initiation and requirement stages are BCM activities during which the ITSCM process provides support. These initial activities result in a business continuity strategy that focuses on business processes and associated issues.

An ITSCM strategy is produced after the business continuity strategy, once the role of IT services within the strategy has been determined. Both strategies support each other.

The activities in the implementation stage depend on the extent to which continuity facilities have been applied within the organization. For example, certain parts of the business could have established their own BCPs.

Successful implementation of ITSCM relies on identifying critical business processes, and on the analysis and coordination of required technology and supporting IT services.

Training activities in the ongoing operation stage ensure that all staff are aware of the implications of business continuity and service continuity.

Regular review activities of the deliverables that result from ITSCM, ensure that these deliverables remain up to date.

As part of this stage, a regular testing program must be established to ensure that important components of the strategy are tested. Whenever changes are made to IT technology, thorough testing must be performed.

The Change Management process, which forms part of the ongoing operation stage, should ensure that all changes are assessed to determine their potential impact on the ITSCM plans.



Question

Sequence the stages of the ITSCM lifecycle.

Options:
A.Initiation
B.Requirements and strategy
C.Implementation
D.Ongoing operation

Answer

Correct answer(s):
Initiation is ranked The initiation stage is the first stage of the ITSCM lifecycle. It includes activities such as policy setting, specifying terms of reference and scope, allocating resources, defining the project organization and control structure, and agreeing on project and quality plans.Requirements and strategy is ranked Business requirements and strategy are determined during the second stage of the ITSCM lifecycle. BIA and risk assessment are also performed during this stage, and required risk reduction measures and recovery options are recorded.Implementation is ranked The implementation stage occurs third in the ITSCM lifecycle, once a business continuity strategy and an aligned ITSCM strategy have been produced. In this stage, measures for ensuring continuity are put in place.Ongoing operation is ranked Ongoing operation is the final stage of the ITSCM lifecycle. Activities in this stage include raising awareness through education and training, performing reviews and testing, and Change Management.
3. Security and ITSCM managers

The security manager and IT service continuity manager are respectively responsible for ISM and ITSCM.

These are some of the responsibilities of the security manager:
• developing and maintaining the information security policy and supporting policies 
• ensuring appropriate authorization, commitment to, and approval of policies by senior IT and business management 
• communicating and publicizing the information security policy to all the appropriate areas 
• ensuring that the information security policy is enforced and abided by, and 
• identifying and classifying IT and information assets, as well as the necessary level of protection 

These are some of the responsibilities of the IT service continuity manager:
• performing BIAs for all services 
• implementing and maintaining the ITSCM process to ensure that agreed targets are met 
• ensuring that all ITSCM plans, risks, and activities support and align with BCM plans, risks, and activities, and 
• performing risk assessment and management to prevent failures whenever practical and cost-justifiable 

The IT service continuity manager is also responsible for developing and maintaining the ITSCM strategy and assessing any possible service continuity problems and, if necessary, using the service continuity plan.



Question

Match each of the process managers to their particular responsibilities.

Options:
A.Security manager
B.IT service continuity manager

Targets:
1.Communicating and publicizing the information security policy
2.Identifying and classifying IT and information assets
3.Performing a Business Impact Analysis for all services
4.Performing risk assessment and management to prevent failures

Answer

Communicating and publicizing the information security policy to all the appropriate areas helps meet the aims of the ISM process, and is a responsibility of the security manager.

Identifying and classifying IT and information assets, as well as the necessary level of protection, is a responsibility of the security manager.

Performing a Business Impact Analysis for all services helps meet the objectives of ITSCM, which focuses on supporting BCM. This is the responsibility of the IT service continuity manager.

Performing risk assessment and management to prevent failures whenever practical and cost-justifiable helps meet the objectives of the ITSCM process, which aims to provide IT service continuity in support of business continuity strategy. This is the responsibility of the IT service continuity manager.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option A

Target 3 = Option B

Target 4 = Option B

4. Summary

The Information Security Management (ISM) process provides the focus for all aspects of IT security. An information security policy and an Information Security Management System (ISMS) are needed to support effective ISM. 

IT Service Continuity Management (ITSCM) is a Service Design process that supports the Business Continuity Management process. It should adopt a lifecycle approach to service management, with stages for service initiation, requirements and strategy, implementation, and ongoing operations.

The security manager and the IT service continuity manager are responsible for ensuring that the aims of ISM and ITSCM are met.

Back to top
 

Understanding Service Design Processes
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize Service Design processes, objectives, and basic concepts
 
1. Exercise overview

In this exercise, you're required to recognize Service Design processes, objectives, and basic concepts.

This involves the following tasks:
•recognizing Service Design processes and their objectives, and
•understanding basic concepts associated with Service Design processes

2. Identifying objectives

An IT organization that has recently started operations has yet to implement ITIL® principles in the running of its business. It is currently experiencing problems in some areas of its operations.

The organization is particularly concerned about the areas that fall under the scope of Service Design. It knows that there are certain processes that should be applied that would help to streamline activities and eliminate the problems that are currently being experienced.



Question

The IT organization is having trouble with its contracted suppliers. The suppliers don't always comply with their contractual agreements, and the IT organization feels that it could obtain better value from these relationships.

Which Service Design process would help alleviate these problems?

Options:
1.Capacity Management
2.Supplier Management
3.Service Catalog Management
4.IT Service Continuity Management (ITSCM)

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. Capacity Management is not concerned with the maintenance of relations with suppliers, but rather aims to ensure that IT processes are planned and scheduled to provide a consistent level of performance.

Option 2: Correct. Supplier Management aims to manage all suppliers and contracts needed to support the IT organization. This includes ensuring that suppliers meet their contractual obligations and that the IT organization can obtain value for money from the suppliers.

Option 3: Incorrect. Service Catalog Management is not concerned with the relationship with suppliers, but rather has the objective of managing the information contained within the Service Catalog and to ensure its accuracy.

Option 4: Incorrect. ITSCM is not concerned with the relationship with suppliers, but rather with the provision of guidance on IT continuity or recovery issues to all other areas of the business.

Correct answer(s):

2. Supplier Management



Question

The IT organization has noted that there is no single source of information about the IT services that it offers. This has resulted in confusion among potential customers about what the organization provides. It has also resulted in incorrect information being provided to third parties.

Which Service Design process can help eliminate this problem?

Options:
1.Supplier Management
2.Availability Management
3.Information Security Management
4.Service Catalog Management

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. Supplier Management aims to manage all suppliers and contracts needed to support the IT organization. It is not responsible for managing the Service Catalog.

Option 2: Incorrect. The Availability Management process aims to ensure that all operational services meet the agreed availability targets. It is not responsible for managing information about the services offered.

Option 3: Incorrect. Information Security Management (ISM) ensures that information security risks are managed appropriately and that enterprise information resources are responsibly used. It is not responsible for managing the Service Catalog.

Option 4: Correct. Service Catalog Management is responsible for creating a Service Catalog, which lists all the services the IT organization offers. It is also responsible for managing and maintaining the information in the Catalog, thereby ensuring that potential customers will receive accurate information about the services that the organization offers.

Correct answer(s):

4. Service Catalog Management



Question

The IT organization is concerned about the security of its information. It has learned that unauthorized personnel can access confidential information fairly easily.

Which Service Design process can help to eliminate this problem?

Options:
1.Capacity Management
2.Availability Management
3.Information Security Management
4.Supplier Management

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. Capacity Management is not concerned with the security of confidential information, but rather aims to ensure that IT processes are planned and scheduled to provide a consistent level of performance.

Option 2: Incorrect. The Availability Management process aims to ensure that all operational services meet the desired availability targets. It is not responsible for the security of information within the IT organization.

Option 3: Correct. Information Security Management (ISM) ensures that information security risks are managed appropriately. ISM can implement policies such as password protection to ensure that only authorized persons can view confidential information.

Option 4: Incorrect. Supplier Management aims to manage all suppliers and contracts needed to support the IT organization. It is not responsible for ensuring the security of information in the organization.

Correct answer(s):

3. Information Security Management

3. Identifying responsibilities

The IT organization has realized the benefits of applying the various processes of Service Design to its business operations.

However, it needs to ensure that the people assigned to control these processes are aware of their responsibilities so that the processes remain effective.



Question

Match the responsibilities to the relevant process managers.

Options:
A.Producing and maintaining the Service Catalog
B.Ensuring that services deliver the levels of availability established in Service Level Agreements (SLAs)
C.Regularly performing a Risk Analysis of all contracts
D.Communicating the information security policy to all the appropriate areas
E.Predicting future capacity requirements
F.Making sure that all ITSCM plans, risks, and activities align with and support BCM plans, risks, and activities

Targets:
1.Service Catalog manager
2.Availability manager
3.Supplier manager
4.Security manager
5.Capacity manager
6.IT service continuity manager

Answer

The Service Catalog manager is responsible for producing and maintaining the Service Catalog. This entails ensuring that all relevant services are recorded in the Service Catalog and that all the information is accurate and up to date.

The availability manager is responsible for ensuring that all services deliver the levels of availability established in SLAs. The manager is also responsible for ensuring that all new services are designed to deliver the levels of availability required by the business.

The supplier manager is responsible for supporting the development and review of SLAs, contracts, agreements, and any other documents for third-party suppliers. This person is also responsible for maintaining and reviewing a Supplier and Contract Database (SCD).

The security manager is responsible for developing and maintaining the information security policy and publicizing it to all the appropriate areas of the IT organization. This person is also responsible for ensuring that the information security policy is enforced and abided by.

The capacity manager is responsible for identifying and managing current capacity requirements, and for predicting future capacity requirements.

The IT service continuity manager is responsible for ensuring the continuity of IT services, in alignment with business continuity strategy. This includes ensuring that all ITSCM plans, risks, and activities align with and support BCM plans, risks, and activities.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

Target 5 = Option E

Target 6 = Option F

4. Recognizing Service Design processes

The IT organization knows that the process of Capacity Management is complex and technical, and is therefore divided into subprocesses.



Question

The IT organization wants to ensure that it can identify the subprocesses of Capacity Management.

Which are those subprocesses?

Options:
1.Service Capacity Management
2.Supplier Management
3.Business Capacity Management
4.Component Capacity Management
5.Service Catalog Management

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Service Capacity Management aims to manage, control, and predict the end-to-end performance and capacity of operational IT service usage and workloads.This subprocess also ensures that the performance of all services is monitored and measured.

Option 2: Incorrect. The Supplier Management process is one of the Service Design processes, rather than a subprocess of Capacity Management. The Supplier Management process aims to ensure that suppliers meet the terms, conditions, and targets of their contracts and agreements.

Option 3: Correct. Business Capacity Management turns business needs and plans into requirements for service and IT infrastructure. This subprocess ensures that future business requirements for IT services are quantified, designed, planned, and implemented in a timely fashion.

Option 4: Correct. Component Capacity Management is responsible for the management, control, and prediction of the performance, utilization, and capacity of IT technology components. This subprocess ensures that components of the IT infrastructure with limited resources are monitored and measured.

Option 5: Incorrect. The Service Catalog Management process is one of the Service Design processes, rather than a subprocess of Capacity Management. The Service Catalog Management process aims to provide a single, consistent source of information about services.

Correct answer(s):

1. Service Capacity Management
3. Business Capacity Management
4. Component Capacity Management



Question

The IT organization knows that part of the objectives of the Supplier Management process is to maintain the Supplier and Contract Database (SCD).

Which are examples of what the SCD should contain?

Options:
1.A summary of the goals and purposes of the IT organization, and details of what services it provides 
2.The details of a computer organization that provides PCs and other hardware to the IT organization
3.Details of the contract between the IT organization and its e-mail provider
4.Details of a foreign IT consultant who is contracted to work for the organization for six months

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. The SCD provides details of the IT organization's suppliers, and summaries of the suppliers' products and services. It does not contain details of the organization's own services.

Option 2: Correct. The SCD is a database that provides details of all the organization's suppliers, including the types of services they provide.

Option 3: Correct. The SCD is a database that provides details of all the organization's suppliers, as well as the details of the contracts between the organization and the suppliers.

Option 4: Incorrect. The SCD is a database that provides details of all the organization's suppliers and contracts with those suppliers, rather than details of the organization's employees.

Correct answer(s):

2. The details of a computer organization that provides PCs and other hardware to the IT organization
3. Details of the contract between the IT organization and its e-mail provider

The IT organization is designing an e-accounting system that enables users to record, perform, and track all organizational accounting activity electronically.

Availability Management is conducting measurements and calculations in order to determine the availability, reliability, and maintainability of the e-accounting service.



Question

The e-accounting service package has an agreed service time of 4,380 hours. During this time, the service has had three hours of downtime – three breaks of an hour each.

Which calculation must you perform to determine the availability of the service?

Options:
1.Divide 3 – the hours of downtime – by 3, which is the number of breaks
2.Subtract 3 from 4,380, divide the result by 4,380, and multiply by 100
3.Divide 4,380 by 3
4.Subtract 3 from 4,380 and divide the result by 3

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. This formula will calculate the maintainability of the service in terms of Mean Time to Restore Service (MTRS). In this case, the maintainability of the service is one hour.

Option 2: Correct. To calculate service availability as a percentage, you subtract downtime in hours from total time available, divide by the total time available, and – to obtain a percentage – multiply by 100. In this case, the service has an availability of 99.93%.

Option 3: Incorrect. This formula will calculate the reliability of the service in terms of Mean Time Between Service Incidents (MTBSI). In this case, the reliability of the service is 1,460 hours MTBSI.

Option 4: Incorrect. This formula will calculate the reliability of the service in terms of Mean Time Between Failures (MTBF). In this case, the reliability is 1,459 hours MTBF.

Correct answer(s):

2. Subtract 3 from 4,380, divide the result by 4,380, and multiply by 100

The IT service provider has implemented the Information Security Management process. Part of this process is establishing the Information Security Management System (ISMS).



Question

Which are examples of elements of the ISMS?

Options:
1.Conducting a once-off audit of the technical security of the IT system
2.Establishing a management framework that can initiate and manage information security in the organization
3.Using security procedures that are justified, appropriate, and supported by senior management
4.Eliminating unnecessary security measures

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. The evaluation element of ISMS aims to supervise and check compliance with the security policy, which entails conducting regular audits of the technical security of IT systems.

Option 2: Correct. This is an example of the control element. This element establishes an organization structure capable of preparing, approving, and implementing the information security policy. 

Option 3: Correct. This is an example of the implementation element. This element aims to ensure that appropriate procedures, tools, and controls underpin the information security policy.

Option 4: Incorrect. The plan element of the ISMS aims to identify and create the appropriate security measures, based on knowledge of organizational needs.

Correct answer(s):

2. Establishing a management framework that can initiate and manage information security in the organization
3. Using security procedures that are justified, appropriate, and supported by senior management



Question

The IT organization has implemented the IT Service Continuity Management process. The Service Continuity Lifecycle is important for maintaining this process.

Match examples of activities to the corresponding stages in the IT Service Continuity Management (ITSCM) lifecycle.

Options:
A.Allocating resources to the establishment of the business continuity environment
B.Conducting a Business Impact Analysis (BIA) to measure the impact to the business that loss of service would have
C.Developing continuity plans, such as a recovery plan
D.Ensuring that all staff are trained and aware of the implications of business continuity and service continuity

Targets:
1.Initiation
2.Requirements and strategy
3.Implementation
4.Ongoing operation

Answer

Initiation is the first stage of the lifecycle. It applies to the whole organization and includes activities such as policy setting, specifying terms of reference and scope, allocating resources, defining the project organization and control structure, and agreeing on project and quality plans. 

Requirements and strategy is the second stage of the lifecycle. Business requirements are determined in this stage. BIA and risk assessment are performed, and required risk reduction measures and recovery options to support the business are recorded.

Implementation is the third stage of the lifecycle. The activities in this stage include developing ITSCM plans that ensure that the necessary information for critical systems, services, and facilities will still be provided or will be reinstated within a reasonable period after a failure.

Ongoing operation is the fourth stage of the lifecycle. Its activities include raising awareness through education and training, review, testing, and change management.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

Service Design processes and their objectives were identified, the roles and responsibilities associated with these processes were determined, and concepts associated with the processes were recognized.

Back to top
 

© 2017 Skillsoft Ireland Limited
  
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
 
Print 

Course Transcript
 

ITIL® 2011 Edition Foundation: Service Transition Processes and Policies
  

Service Transition Policies and Processes

1. The Scope and Policies of Service Transition

2. Release and Deployment Management in Service Transition

3. Knowledge Management in Service Transition

4. Asset Transition, Service Support, and Testing

5. Understanding Service Transition Processes

Change Management for IT Services

1. Change Management

2. Normal and Emergency Changes in Change Management 

3. Managing IT Service Changes

4. Change Evaluation 
   

The Scope and Policies of Service Transition
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize the scope of Service Transition
•describe examples of Service Transition policies
 
1. Scope of Service Transition

Service Transition is a stage in the Service Lifecycle outlined in the Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL®). It's designed to ensure that new or modified services meet the business expectations documented in the Service Strategy and Service Design stages of the lifecycle.

Processes included in the Service Transition stage are transition planning and support, Change Management, Service Asset and Configuration Management (SACM), Release and Deployment Management, service validation and testing, change evaluation, and Knowledge Management.

The objectives of Service Transition are to
• plan and manage service changes efficiently and effectively 
• manage risks relating to new, changed, or retired services 
• successfully deploy service releases into supported environments 
• set appropriate expectations about the performance and use of new or changed IT services 
• ensure that service changes create the expected business value, and 
• provide accurate information about services and service assets 

To meet these objectives, the Service Transition stage needs to include
capacity and resource planningDuring Service Transition, you plan and manage the capacity and resources required to manage Service Transitions, to ensure that services can be put into operation effectively and efficiently.
risk evaluationDuring the Service Transition stage, you implement a Risk Management framework for evaluating service capabilities and risk profiles before new or changed IT services are deployed.
service asset management, andDuring Service Transition, you establish and maintain the integrity of service assets.
Service Lifecycle oversightTo ensure that the transition of services goes as smoothly as possible, you ensure that there are efficient mechanisms in place for building, testing, and deploying the services.

You also need to ensure that services can be managed, operated, and supported in accordance with constraints specified during the Service Design stage of the Service Lifecycle.

The Service Transition stage includes release planning, building, testing, evaluation, and deployment of new and changed IT services.

It also includes the transition of changes in the IT service provider's Service Management capabilities.

The scope of Service Transition includes
• managing the complexity associated with changes to services and Service Management processes 
• introducing new services or making changes to existing services 
• decommissioning and discontinuing services, applications, or service components when relevant, and 
• transferring services to and from other IT service providers – for example, due to changes in outsourcing, use of co-sourcing, or company mergers 

The drive for continual service improvement prompts the Change Management process, which provides authorization for the introduction of new services or for changes to existing ones. This process is followed by SACM, during which baselines are captured and recorded.



Graphic

A diagram illustrates the context in which the Service Transition stage occurs. Starting with Continual Service Improvement, Change Management provides authorization for changes, and then SACM provides a point to capture baselines. These feed into Service Transition, which focuses on four main types of activities – transition planning and support, managing people through Service Transitions, change evaluation, and service validation and testing. Change evaluation also leads to Release and Deployment Management, which includes release planning, release build and test, release deployment, and review and close, and affects Service Design, Service Strategy, and Service Operation. Knowledge Management also becomes relevant during Continual Service Improvement.

The Service Transition stage focuses on providing transition planning and support for these services, and managing the necessary resources for the processes involved in transitioning these services into live environments. It also involves evaluating the changes, which leads into Release and Deployment Management, and finally validating and testing the services that have been introduced or modified.

Once services have been validated and tested, the final process – Knowledge Management – is relevant. This process is used in support of the whole Service Lifecycle.

Adopting and implementing consistent approaches during the Service Transition stage can help organizations to
• estimate project costs more accurately 
• adopt changes more readily 
• increase confidence that new or changed IT services can be delivered to specification 
• improve control of service assets and configurations 
• reduce delays, and 
• enable more efficient resource sharing 



Question

What activities fall within the scope of Service Transition?

Options:
1.Managing the complexities associated with changes to services and Service Management processes
2.Introducing new services or making changes to existing services
3.Decommissioning services
4.Transferring services to and from other IT service providers due to changes in outsourcing
5.Reviewing and assessing existing service performance
6.Managing the complexity associated with multiple applications and users

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The Service Transition stage involves managing changes to services and Service Management processes, and their transition into live environments.

Option 2: Correct. The Service Transition stage relates to moving new or modified services into operation.

Option 3: Correct. As new or updated services are deployed, Service Transition must manage the decommissioning and discontinuation of redundant services, or services no longer considered of sufficient value to the organization.

Option 4: Correct. During the Service Transition stage, you may need to transfer services to or from other service providers, for example due to changes in outsourcing or due to company mergers.

Option 5: Incorrect. The Service Transition stage involves monitoring and evaluating new or modified services to ensure they're meeting business expectations.

Option 6: Incorrect. The Service Transition stage involves managing the transitions of new or changed IT services into live environments. It doesn't involve managing the complexity associated with multiple applications and users.

Correct answer(s):

1. Managing the complexities associated with changes to services and Service Management processes
2. Introducing new services or making changes to existing services
3. Decommissioning services
4. Transferring services to and from other IT service providers due to changes in outsourcing

2. Service Transition policies

Each organization develops and creates policies based on its individual circumstances. For example, organizations' needs vary based on their size, distribution, culture, and resources. However, ITIL® provides 14 policy examples that can guide organizations in adopting best practices for the successful transition of IT services.

The first four policies outlined by ITIL® for Service Transition are
• define and implement a formal policy for Service Transition 
• implement all changes to services through Service Transition 
• adopt a common framework and standards, and 
• maximize re-use of established processes and systems 

Drill Down Home Page

Each policy has associated principles and best practices.

Page 1 of 2: Define and implement formal policy 

The appropriate management team should define, document, and approve a formal policy for Service Transition. It should also be communicated to all relevant stakeholders. Deployment should be addressed early in the release design and planning stages.

Page 2 of 2: Define and implement formal policy 

The policy should clearly state the objectives and should be aligned with the overall governance framework. The policy should also demonstrate the commitment of sponsors and senior management to deliver predicted outcomes from any changes in IT services.

The policy should outline processes that integrate teams while maintaining clear lines of accountability and responsibility. They should also specify how changes are delivered – as releases, for example.

Page 1 of 2: Implement changes to services 

All service changes should be managed through the Service Transition stage, with the exception of standard changes that follow procedures defined during the stage. Service changes should be managed from a single focal point and their scope must be documented.

Page 2 of 2: Implement changes to services 

Access and permissions for changes should be restricted, and all updates to changes and releases should be recorded against service assets or Configuration Items in the Configuration Management System (CMS).

Standardized methods and procedures should be used to ensure efficient and prompt handling of all changes. Late requests for changes that can't be properly managed shouldn't be accepted.

Page 1 of 1: Adopt a common framework and standards 

Service Transition should be based on a common framework of standard re-usable processes and systems. This will improve integration of the parties involved in Service Transition and reduce variations in the processes.

Best practices for this policy are to gain buy-in for standardization, and to support consistent processing through the use of automation and a clear framework within which the work is carried out. The framework should also be controlled using Change Management and SACM processes.

Page 1 of 2: Maximize re-use of established processes and systems 

Service Transition processes are aligned with the organization's processes and related systems to improve efficiency and effectiveness. Where new processes are required, they are developed with re-use in mind.

The principles are to re-use established protocols wherever possible, develop re-usable standard Service Transition models to build up experience and confidence, implement industry best practices for standardization and integration, and capture data and information from the original source to reduce errors and aid efficiency.

Page 2 of 2: Maximize re-use of established processes and systems 

Best practices to follow include integrating Service Transition into overall Service Management using the organization's project management practices and existing communication channels and processes. Service Transition models should be designed to enable easy customization to suit specific circumstances.



Question

Match principles to the Service Transition policies to which they apply.

Options:
A.Define the commitment of sponsors and outline processes that integrate teams
B.Access and permissions should be restricted and all updates must be documented
C.Gain buy-in for standardization and use automation and a clear framework where possible
D.Integrate Service Transition into overall Service Management using existing communication channels

Targets:
1.Define and implement a formal policy for Service Transition
2.Implement all changes to services through Service Transition
3.Adopt a common framework and standards
4.Maximize re-use of established processes and systems

Answer

A formal policy for Service Transition should define the commitment of sponsors and senior management to the processes and the change and should show how to integrate teams while maintaining clear lines of accountability and responsibility.

The policy to implement all changes to services through Service Transition requires that access and permissions for changes be restricted and all updates to changes and releases should be recorded against service assets or Configuration Items in the CMS.

To ensure that all parties adopt a common framework and standards, it's important to gain buy-in – particularly from the organization's senior management. It's also important to automate processes where possible.

To maximize the re-use of established processes and systems, you should integrate Service Transition into overall Service Management using existing project management practices, communication channels, and processes.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

Another policy suggested by ITIL® is to align Service Transition plans with business needs to maximize the value of the change.

You should adopt program and project management best practices to plan and manage the resources required to package, build, test, and deploy a release successfully. 

You also need to provide clear and comprehensive plans that enable the customer and business to align their change activities with the Service Transition plans.

Several principles are associated with the policy of aligning Service Transition plans with business needs:
• set customer and user expectations about how a service can be used effectively to enable business change 
• provide information and establish processes to enable integration of a release into business processes and services 
• ensure that the transitioning service can be used in accordance with the specified requirements and constraints to improve satisfaction 
• transfer knowledge to customers and other stakeholders to increase their capability to use the new or changed service 
• monitor and measure the use of the service and underlying technology, during deployment and early life support, and 
• compare actual to predicted performance of the service to reduce variations in service capability and performance 

The sixth proposed policy is to establish and maintain relationships with stakeholders throughout Service Transition to set expectations about the new or changed IT service.

You should set expectations about service performance and how the service will enable business change. You should also communicate changes to stakeholders and ensure good quality information about the transition is readily available.

An associated best practice is validation from stakeholders that the new service can be used according to requirements and constraints. You should also share plans with stakeholders, build relationships with them, and gain commitment from key suppliers during and following transition.

The seventh proposed policy is to establish effective controls and disciplines throughout the Service Lifecycle. Associated principles and best practices relate to
general management throughout the lifecycleThe integrity of all identified service assets and configurations should be maintained throughout the Service Lifecycle.

This management should be in accordance with available resources and the requirements and constraints defined in Service Level Agreements (SLAs).definition of roles and responsibilities, andYou should clearly define and communicate roles and responsibilities – ensuring they are clearly understood and map to each stage in the Service Transition lifecycle.

The assigned roles should be stored within the Service Knowledge Management System (SKMS) and the CMS.

You should also ensure that only appropriately qualified staff can implement changes to controlled test environments and supported services.audit requirementsRegular configuration and process audits should monitor the change lifecycle. To better identify discrepancies or unauthorized changes, it may be helpful to automate audit activities. The processes for Configuration, Change, and Problem Management should be transaction-based to provide a clearer audit trail and improve the effectiveness of controls.
Another proposed Service Transition policy is to provide systems for knowledge transfer and decision support. Ensuring effective knowledge transfer processes helps to inform decision-making and improves Service Operation.

As best practices, you need to provide easy access, presentation, and reporting tools for the SKMS and CMS. These should be presented using quality interfaces designed with different people's roles and responsibilities in mind.

After each Service Transition is complete, it's useful to document a summary of the predicted and unpredicted effects of the change in terms of capability, performance, and risk.

Principles associated with providing systems for knowledge transfer include providing quality data, information, and knowledge at the right time to the right people to reduce effort spent waiting for decisions and consequent delays.

You should ensure that there is adequate training and that the quality of the data and documentation is acceptable.

Also establish a definitive source of knowledge and share this information with relevant stakeholders across the Service Lifecycle. It's helpful to provide consolidated information to enable change and effective decisions.

Another important policy is to plan release packages in ways that provide the agreed levels of traceability in a cost-effective and efficient way. So you need to ensure relevant stakeholders approve the release policy and that the policy is planned well in advance.

Planned release and deployment mechanisms should ensure component integrity during installation, handling, packaging, and delivery. Resource use should be coordinated during release and optimized to reduce costs.

The risks of a failed release should be included in the plans, and assessed and managed. Also, emergency releases should be planned and managed in line with emergency change procedures.



Question

Match the example Service Transition policies to the corresponding principles.

Options:
A.Measure service use during deployment
B.Communicate plans to customers, users, and suppliers 
C.Schedule regular configuration and process audits and automate audit activities where necessary
D.Provide adequate training and ensure that the quality of data is good
E.Manage emergency releases in line with the organization's emergency change procedures

Targets:
1.Align Service Transition plans with the business needs
2.Establish and maintain relationships with stakeholders
3.Establish effective controls and disciplines
4.Provide systems for knowledge transfer and decision support
5.Plan release packages

Answer

Aligning Service Transition with business needs includes measuring service use during deployment and early life support.

You should communicate changes and plans to stakeholders, and ensure that good quality information about the transition is readily available.

Effective controls include regular audits, automated audit activities, and the provision of a clear audit trail for Configuration, Change, and Problem Management processes.

Providing systems for knowledge transfer and decision support can involve providing quality training and information. This can enhance stakeholder satisfaction, reduce costs, and reduce mistakes.

When planning release packages, you should ensure that emergency releases are planned in accordance with emergency change procedures.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

Target 5 = Option E

The remaining Service Transition policies proposed by ITIL® are to
anticipate and manage course correctionsTo anticipate and manage course corrections, you need to train employees to identify, make, and manage course corrections, and to apply necessary variations to original Service Transition plans within prescribed and understood limits. These changes should be managed using existing procedures, and they should be informed by previous course corrections.

You should encourage stakeholders to expect changes and understand that these are necessary and beneficial. You should also predict future changes and use end-of-transition debriefing sessions to inform others.proactively manage resources across Service TransitionTo manage resources proactively, you need a capable team to implement the change through all lifecycle stages. You should establish shared, dedicated, and specialist resources across Service Transition activities to eliminate delays and optimize the use of resources.

Where possible, automate repetitive and error-prone processes to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of key activities.ensure early involvement in the Service Lifecycle, andBy ensuring early involvement in the Service Lifecycle, you can maximize early detection of potential faults or weaknesses, and of changes that won't deliver the expected benefits. This generally results in much lower costs than if you identify problems only later on.provide assurance of the quality of the new or changed serviceTo provide quality assurance, Service Transition resources should verify that the proposed changes can meet specified business requirements and deliver the anticipated business benefits. Through formal evaluations of Service Design, the team should also identify risks and measure and reduce known errors.

Test design and execution should be managed and delivered independently from the service designer or architect and developers. Additionally, test environments need to reflect live environments to the greatest degree possible to allow for relevant results.
The final policy proposed by ITIL® is to improve quality proactively during the Service Transition stage. Three principles are associated with implementing this policy:
• detecting and resolving issues during the transition stage to reduce the likelihood of errors occurring during the Service Operation stage 
• managing and reducing issues and errors during Service Transition to reduce costs and the need for re-work, and 
• aligning Incident and Problem Management with the Service Operation processes to help measure and manage their impact 



Question

Match the example Service Transition policies to their principles.

Options:
A.Predict future changes and use end-of-transition debriefing sessions
B.Automate repetitive and error-prone processes
C.Establish effective controls for detecting problems at the outset
D.Ensure Service Transition resources understand customers' IT service requirements and formally evaluate design
E.Align error management with Service Operation processes to help measure and manage their impact

Targets:
1.Anticipate and manage course corrections
2.Proactively manage resources across Service Transition activities
3.Ensure early error detection in the Service Lifecycle
4.Provide assurance of the quality of the new or changed service
5.Proactively improve quality during Service Transition

Answer

To anticipate and manage course corrections, you should use existing procedures – informed by previous corrections where possible, anticipate future problems, and build new knowledge through end-of-transition debriefing sessions.

To manage resources proactively, you should establish a capable team, establish a range of resources, and automate error-prone processes where possible to improve efficiency.

The establishment of suitable controls and disciplines at the earliest stages ensures early detection of problems, which generally reduces the costs associated with addressing those problems.

To provide quality assurance, the team needs to verify that the proposed changes can deliver the required business benefits. It's useful to conduct formal evaluations of Service Design to identify associated risks, and to measure and reduce known errors.

To improve quality during the Service Transition stage, it's important to align incident and problem management with the Service Operation processes to help measure and manage their impact on service delivery.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

Target 5 = Option E

3. Summary

The scope of Service Transition includes implementing new and changed IT services into the live environment, decommissioning old services out of the live environment, and transferring services to and from other IT service providers.

Organizations should create their own policies based on their needs. However, they can use any of the 14 policies suggested by ITIL® to guide their implementation of the Service Transition stage.

Back to top
 

Release and Deployment Management in Service Transition
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•describe the phases of the Release and Deployment Management process
 
1. Scope and purpose

As part of the Service Transition stage, the Release and Deployment Management process guides the planning, scheduling, building, testing, and deployment of releases. 

It helps to ensure that these activities deliver the newly required functionality without endangering the quality and integrity of existing services.



Graphic

The Release and Deployment Management process consists of release planning, release build and test, release deployment, and review and close.

Two main objectives of the Release and Deployment Management process are to define and sign off Release and Deployment Management plans with stakeholders, and to create and test packages that are compatible with Configuration Items (CIs).

There are several other key objectives of the Release and Deployment Management process:
• maintain the integrity of a release and all of its associated components 
• deploy release packages from the definitive media library (DML) to the live environment in line with agreed plans and schedules 
• ensure that all release packages can be tracked, installed, tested, verified, and canceled if appropriate 
• ensure that change is properly managed during service release and deployment 
• ensure that any new or changed service can deliver the agreed utility and warranty 
• record and manage deviations and risks, and take necessary corrective action, and 
• ensure knowledge transfer to key stakeholders to optimize the use of new or changed IT services 

The scope of Release and Deployment Management includes the processes, systems, and functions required to package, build, test, and deploy releases into live environments.

It also includes those processes needed to establish IT services and formally hand them over to the Service Operation functions.

The scope of the Release and Deployment Management process also includes all CIs. Examples include
• physical assets, such as a server or network 
• virtual assets, such as a virtual server or virtual storage 
• applications and software 
• training for users and IT staff, and 
• services, including all related contracts and agreements 

Although Release and Deployment Management is responsible for ensuring that appropriate testing takes place, the actual testing is conducted as part of the service validation and testing process.



Graphic

A diagram illustrates the context in which the Service Transition stage occurs. Starting with Continual Service Improvement, Change Management provides authorization for changes, and then SACM provides a point to capture baselines. These feed into Service Transition, which focuses on four main types of activities – transition planning and support, managing people through Service Transitions, change evaluation, and service validation and testing. Change evaluation also leads to Release and Deployment Management, which includes release planning, release build and test, release deployment, and review and close, and affects Service Design, Service Strategy, and Service Operation. Knowledge Management also becomes relevant during Continual Service Improvement.

In addition, Release and Deployment Management isn't responsible for authorizing changes. It requires authorization from Change Management at various stages in the lifecycle of a release.



Question

What are some of the objectives of the Release and Deployment Management process?

Options:
1.Define and agree on plans for service release and deployment with customers
2.Deploy release packages to the live environment in accordance with an agreed plan and schedule
3.Record and manage deviations and risks related to new services
4.Ensure all release packages can be tracked
5.Ensure that reliable and secure knowledge, information, and data is available throughout the Service Lifecycle
6.Maintain accurate configuration information about the historical, planned, and current state of services

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Through Release and Deployment Management, plans for service release and deployment should be communicated with all key stakeholders, including customers, and be properly signed off.

Option 2: Correct. A key objective of this stage is to deploy new or changed IT services to a live environment, on schedule and in keeping with agreed release plans.

Option 3: Correct. An objective of Release and Deployment Management is to ensure that risks associated with releasing and deploying new or changed IT services are properly identified, and that appropriate actions are taken to mitigate those risks.

Option 4: Correct. An objective of Release and Deployment Management is to ensure that all released services can be tracked, installed, tested, verified, and backed out if necessary.

Option 5: Incorrect. This is an objective of Knowledge Management rather than of Release and Deployment Management.

Option 6: Incorrect. This is an objective of Asset and Configuration Management rather than of Release and Deployment Management.

Correct answer(s):

1. Define and agree on plans for service release and deployment with customers
2. Deploy release packages to the live environment in accordance with an agreed plan and schedule
3. Record and manage deviations and risks related to new services
4. Ensure all release packages can be tracked

2. The four phases

The Release and Deployment Management process has four phases – release and deployment planning, release build and test,deployment, and review and close.



Graphic

A diagram shows that Change Management provides authorization for release planning, for the release build and test phase, and for checking a service to DML. It also provides authorization for the deployment, transfer, and retirement of services. The review and close phase of Release and Deployment Management returns a post-implementation review to Change Management.

Drill Down Home Page

Each phase has its own challenges and requirements.

Page 1 of 3: Release and deployment planning 

The plans for creating and deploying a release are generated in the release and deployment planning phase. This phase starts with Change Management authorization to plan a release, and ends with Change Management authorization to create the release.

Page 2 of 3: Release and deployment planning 

The release and deployment plan for a release should specify
• the scope and content of the release 
• associated risks 
• stakeholders affected by the release 
• the team responsible for the release 
• the deployment schedule for the release 
• the delivery and deployment strategy for the release 
• resources required for the next phase, and 
• the pass or fail criteria for the release 

Page 3 of 3: Release and deployment planning 

Build and test planning must work with service validation and testing to ensure that test plans can be carried out.



Graphic

A diagram displays that release build and test in the Release and Deployment Management process links to service validation and testing. Other processes of the Release and Deployment Management process are release planning, release deployment, and review and close.

The activities that take place during release and deployment planning include developing build plans, design specifications, and environment configuration requirements.

During this phase, the team also establishes release logistics and schedules, defines a configuration baseline for the build environment, tests the build and related procedures, and assigns resources, roles, and responsibilities for performing key activities.

Page 1 of 3: Release build and test 

During the release build and test phase, a release package is built, tested, and checked into the DML.

The phase starts with Change Management authorization to build a release and ends with Change Management authorization for the baselined release package added into the DML by Service Asset and Configuration Management (SACM).

The release build and test phase occurs only once for each release.

Page 2 of 3: Release build and test 

During the release build and test phase, you need to manage the build and test environments. This includes controlling access rights to physical and technology components and managing environmental issues – such as cooling, fire precautions, accessibility, and safety measures.

You also need to manage and document build and test activities, such as those related to version control, baseline management, test report generation, and output control.

Page 3 of 3: Release build and test 

Other activities associated with this phase include
• verification activities – for example, checking that prerequisites are met before a build or test begins 
• preparation activities – preparing and controlling the service release ready for deployment to the live environment, and 
• promotion activities – promoting or handing over the service release to the next stage or team 

Page 1 of 2: Deployment 

The deployment phase starts with Change Management authorization to deploy a release package to one or more target environments. It ends with handover to the Service Operation functions and early-life support.

During the deployment phase, you develop a detailed implementation plan, including details of who is responsible for each aspect of implementation. This phase is also an opportunity to prepare the organization and its people for organizational change.

There may be many separate deployment phases for each release, depending on the planned deployment options.

Page 2 of 2: Deployment 

Deployment stakeholders need to be sufficiently confident in a service release to deploy it, own their aspects of deployment, and be committed to the deployment.

Senior management, customers, the business, and service provider teams need to accept the deployment costs, management, organization, and people implications of the release, as well as any corresponding organization, function, and process changes.

Page 1 of 2: Review and close 

When reviewing a deployment, you need to capture experiences and feedback about customer, user, and service provider satisfaction.



Graphic

A simple example of a customer survey that aims to rate a service prompts recipients to provide one of three responses – Yes, Neutral, or No – to the questions "Was the service fast?" "Was the service friendly?" and "Was the service efficient?"

You need to check that any problems, known errors, and workarounds are documented and accepted by the affected stakeholders.

You should also highlight quality criteria that weren't met and ensure that required actions, necessary fixes, and changes are complete.

Page 2 of 2: Review and close 

Before closing the Release and Deployment Management process, you need to ensure that there aren't any remaining capability, resource, capacity, or performance issues to address. To do this, it's useful to review performance targets, achievements, and the risk register.

You also need to ensure that any redundant assets have been removed, and make final checks to ensure the service is ready for transition from early-life support into operation.

So in this phase, experience and feedback are captured, performance targets and achievements are reviewed, and lessons are learned.



Question

Match deployment management processes to the phases of the Release and Deployment Management process to which they belong.

Options:
A.Develop build and test plans that include details on the resources, roles, and responsibilities for performing key activities
B.Document baseline measurements and restrict access to the process directory
C.Assign a helpdesk agent to train the team and ensure that the sponsor has signed off on all deployment costs
D.Note which quality criteria haven't been met and document workarounds

Targets:
1.Release and deployment planning
2.Release build and test
3.Deployment
4.Review and close

Answer

During release and deployment planning, you will need to develop build and test plans. Build and test planning activities include establishing release logistics and schedules, defining a configuration baseline for the build environment, testing the build and related procedures, and assigning resources, roles, and responsibilities for performing key activities.

In the release build and test phase, you need to control access rights and document build and test activities, such as those associated with baseline management and version control. 

In the deployment phase, you need to ensure that key stakeholders accept the deployment costs and assign individuals to specific activities, such as training.

During the review and close phase, you need to assess the quality of a service release and ensure that any problems, known errors, and workarounds are documented.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

3. Summary

The Release and Deployment Management process guides the planning, scheduling, building, testing, and deployment of releases. Its scope includes the processes, systems, and functions required to package, build, test, and deploy a release into the live environment. It also includes processes needed to establish the service and formally hand it over to Service Operation functions.

The Release and Deployment Management process includes four stages – release and deployment planning, release build and test, deployment, and review and close.

Back to top
 

Knowledge Management in Service Transition
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•identify the Knowledge Management structure
 
1. Scope and purpose

In the ITIL® Service Lifecycle, the Knowledge Management process occurs as part of the Service Transition stage.



Graphic

The ITIL® Service Lifecycle consists of the phases Service Strategy, Service Design, Service Transition, Service Operation, and Continual Service Improvement.

The Knowledge Management process involves sharing perspectives, data, ideas, experience, and information, and ensuring that these are available in the right place and at the right time. This enables informed decisions, and improves efficiency by reducing the need to rediscover knowledge.

Knowledge Management has several objectives:
• to improve management decision-making by ensuring reliable and secure knowledge, information, and data is available throughout the Service Lifecycle 
• to reduce the need to rediscover knowledge, thereby improving efficiency, quality of service, and customer satisfaction, and reducing the cost of service 
• to ensure that employees have a clear and common understanding of the value that IT services provide to customers and users, and the ways in which that value is realized 
• to maintain a Service Knowledge Management System (SKMS) that provides controlled access to appropriate knowledge, information, and data for the intended audience, and 
• to gather, analyze, store, share, use, and maintain knowledge, information, and data throughout the service provider organization 

An SKMS is a set of tools and databases used to manage knowledge, information, and data, with the aim of improving the overall efficiency and effectiveness of all stages of the Service Lifecycle.

An SKMS enables people to benefit from the knowledge and experience of others, supports informed decision-making, and improves the management of IT services.

Knowledge that's especially important during the Service Transition stage includes the identities of stakeholders affected by new or changed IT services, acceptable risk levels, service performance expectations, and available resources and timescales.

The ability to deliver a quality service or process relies strongly on the ability of those involved to respond appropriately in different circumstances. In turn, this ability depends on people's understanding of each situation, and of the relevant service or process in that context.

The quality and relevance of stakeholders' knowledge depends on the accessibility, quality, and continued relevance of the information that's made available via an SKMS.

Knowledge Management is relevant to all lifecycle stages and so is referenced throughout ITIL®.

In relation to Service Transition, Knowledge Management includes management of the data, information, and knowledge about new or changed IT services.

However, it doesn't focus on activities like capturing, maintaining, or using configuration data.



Question

What are the objectives of the Knowledge Management process?

Options:
1.Improve management decision-making
2.Ensure employees have a clear and shared understanding of the value their IT services provide to customer
3.Maintain an appropriate SKMS
4.Gather, analyze, store, share, use, and maintain information throughout the organization
5.Ensure that configuration information is correctly gathered
6.Ensure that configuration information is correctly maintained and used

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The Knowledge Management process aims to improve management decision-making by ensuring reliable and secure knowledge, information, and data is available throughout the Service Lifecycle.

Option 2: Correct. The Knowledge Management process aims to ensure that employees have a clear, shared understanding of the value that services provide to customers, and of how that value is realized from the use of the services.

Option 3: Correct. The Knowledge Management process aims to maintain an SKMS that provides controlled access to appropriate knowledge, information, and data for the intended audience.

Option 4: Correct. The Knowledge Management process aims to gather, analyze, store, share, use, and maintain knowledge, information, and data throughout a service provider organization.

Option 5: Incorrect. Knowledge Management doesn't focus on processes like gathering or capturing configuration data. It focuses on ensuring that knowledge is stored and shared appropriately.

Option 6: Incorrect. Knowledge Management doesn't relate to capturing, maintaining, or using configuration data. It relates to managing the knowledge that a service provider accumulates.

Correct answer(s):

1. Improve management decision-making
2. Ensure employees have a clear and shared understanding of the value their IT services provide to customer
3. Maintain an appropriate SKMS
4. Gather, analyze, store, share, use, and maintain information throughout the organization

2. DIKW structure

Data-to-Information-to-Knowledge-to-Wisdom (DIKW) is a structure that can help you understand and implement effective Knowledge Management processes.



Graphic

The DIKW structure is depicted as a graph with "Understanding" as the X-axis and "Context" as the Y-axis. Data is set at the zero position, where the X- and Y-axes meet. The next point is "Information", which rises exponentially and is associated with questions such as "Who?" "What?" "When?" and "Where?" Next is "Knowledge", which is associated with the question "How?" Finally, the Wisdom point is associated with the question "Why?"

The DIKW structure includes four elements.
DataData refers to discrete facts. Most organizations capture large amounts of data in highly structured databases. These may include Service Management, service asset, and Configuration Management databases.

The key Knowledge Management activities associated with data are identifying relevant data, capturing the data accurately, analyzing and synthesizing the data, maintaining data integrity, and storing data to ensure an optimal balance between its availability and the use of resources. 
InformationInformation is data to which context has been added to improve understanding. Information is typically stored in semi-structured media such as documents or e-mail.

The key Knowledge Management activity associated with information is ensuring that information is easy to capture, query, find, re-use, and learn from. This helps ensure that mistakes aren't repeated and that work isn't duplicated. 
KnowledgeKnowledge is dynamic and context-based, and serves to facilitate decision-making. It's composed of the tacit experiences, ideas, insights, values, and judgments of individuals. People gain knowledge from their own and their peers' experiences, and through the analysis of both data and information. Through the synthesis of these elements, new knowledge is created. 

In Service Transition, this knowledge isn't based solely on the transition in progress. Instead, it's also based on experiences of previous transitions, and awareness of recent and anticipated changes – which experienced employees accumulate unconsciously over time. 
WisdomWisdom refers to the application of knowledge and strong common sense in given contexts to create value. It's illustrated in well-informed decisions. 

As an example, the DIKW process may begin with gathering data such as the date and time at which an incident was logged.



Graphic

For example, an incident was logged on March 27 at 16:40.

This data can be transformed into information by combining the start time, end time, and priority of many incidents to find the average time it takes to close incidents of the same priority.



Graphic

Continuing with the example, the average time to close is 2:30 minutes.

Using this average time information, you can develop knowledge. For example, you might analyze the information and find that the average time to close incidents with the given priority has increased by about 10% since a new version of a service was released.

From this, wisdom can be attained. For example, wisdom may involve recognizing that the increase in the time it takes to close the incidents is due to poor-quality documentation for the new version of the service. You can then decide how best to improve the documentation.



Question

Match each example of knowledge with the DIKW element to which it belongs.

Options:
A.Date and time of high-speed Internet services usage
B.A pie chart comparing Internet log-ons on Monday mornings with weekly log-ons
C.Documented average number of connections made on a Monday morning
D.A recognition that users require data from other centers to orient the week's work, results in more connections on Mondays

Targets:
1.Data
2.Information 
3.Knowledge
4.Wisdom

Answer

The date and time of high-speed Internet connections is a discrete fact and so is defined as data, which is the first part of the DIKW structure.

The number of connections that you have each Monday is your raw data. By determining the average number of connections each Monday you are providing context for this data. This represents information.

Comparing weekly logons with Monday logons will make you aware of the how much of the weekly logons occur on Monday. For example, the pie chart may show that 25% of the logons for a week occur on Monday. This represents knowledge and may help you to make decisions about your process.

The reason behind the increased use in Internet connections represents wisdom because it incorporates an understanding of context and a pattern of service delivery, as well as strong common-sense judgment.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option C

Target 3 = Option B

Target 4 = Option D

3. Summary

In the Service Transition stage, the purpose of the Knowledge Management process is to improve decision-making, increase efficiency, and ensure that knowledge is gathered, stored, and shared via a well-managed SKMS.

The DIKW structure defines and distinguishes between data, information, knowledge, and wisdom, based on the associated levels of context and understanding.

Back to top
 

Asset Transition, Service Support, and Testing
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•describe the scope of the service Asset and Configuration Management process
•describe the scope of the transition planning and support process
•describe the scope of the service validation and testing process
 
1. Asset and Configuration Management

No organization can be fully efficient or effective unless it manages its assets well. This applies particularly to assets that are vital for running the organization's business or the businesses of its customers.

The Service Asset and Configuration Management (SACM) process ensures that the assets required to deliver IT services are properly controlled, and that accurate and reliable information about those assets is available when and where it's needed.

This information includes details of how the assets have been configured and the relationships between assets.

To better understand the scope and purpose of Asset and Configuration Management, it's useful to distinguish between
a service asset, andA service asset is any resource or capability that could contribute to the delivery of an IT service. 

Examples of service assets are a virtual server, a physical server, a software licence, information stored in a Service Management system, or knowledge held by a senior manager.a Configuration Item (CI)A CI is a service asset that has to be managed to deliver an IT service. All CIs are service assets, although service assets aren't all CIs. Examples of CIs are servers and software licenses. 

Every CI must be under the control of Change Management. Information that's stored but that isn't under the control of Change Management may be a very valuable asset, but it isn't a CI. 

It's important to note that many virtual assets, such as virtual servers or networks, may be CIs and require the same management control as physical assets.
SACM has several objectives:
• to ensure that assets are identified, controlled, and properly cared for throughout their lifecycle 
• to ensure the integrity of CIs by establishing and maintaining an accurate and complete Configuration Management System (CMS) 
• to identify, control, record, report, audit, and verify services and other CIs, including versions, baselines, constituent components, and service attributes and relationships 
• to maintain accurate configuration information about the historical, planned, and current state of services and other CIs, and 
• to support efficient and effective Service Management processes by providing information that allows for effective decision-making 

SACM ensures that CIs are identified, baselined, and maintained, and that changes to them are controlled.

So its scope includes management of the complete lifecycle of every CI. For example, a virtual server will be used in providing inhouse access to company policies. The asset is identified, its baseline performance is measured, the system is maintained through the transition, and its performance is reviewed once the service is tested.

SACM is responsible for ensuring releases into controlled environments and operational use are formally authorized. It also provides a configuration model of services and service assets by recording the relationships between CIs.

As well as IT assets like servers, asset types covered by SACM include
non-IT assets, andSACM may cover non-IT assets, work products used to develop the services and CIs required to support the service that would not be classified as assets by other parts of the business.

The scope includes interfaces to internal and external service providers where there are assets and CIs that need to be controlled – for example, when assets are shared.fixed assetsMost organizations use a fixed Asset Management process to track and report the value and ownership of fixed assets throughout their lifecycles.

Fixed Asset Management involves maintaining an asset register that records financial information about an organization's fixed assets. It isn't usually under the control of the same business unit that manages IT services. However, the SACM process should be applied for fixed assets under the control of IT, and there should be well-defined interfaces between SACM and fixed Asset Management.

Data from the asset register may also be integrated with the CMS to provide a more complete view of the CIs.


Question

What activities fall within the scope of the SACM process?

Options:
1.Managing interfaces used to share knowledge assets over a network between a supplier and the company
2.Ensuring that a CI is only released into operational use after formal authorization
3.Integrating data from the fixed asset register with the CMS
4.Documenting customer and internal service users' feedback
5.Managing and documenting build activities such as version control

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The scope of SACM includes non-IT assets, work products used to develop the services, and CIs required to support the service such as interfaces to internal and external service providers where there are shared assets that need to be controlled.

Option 2: Correct. The scope of SACM includes management of the complete lifecycle of every CI, including ensuring that releases into controlled environments and operational use are done on the basis of formal authorization.

Option 3: Correct. The SACM process should be applied to fixed assets under the control of IT, and there should be well-defined interfaces between SACM and fixed Asset Management. Also, data from the asset register may be integrated with the CMS to provide a more complete view of the CIs.

Option 4: Incorrect. This is an activity associated with the review and close phase of the Release and Deployment Management process.

Option 5: Incorrect. This is an activity associated with the release build and testing phase of the Release and Deployment Management process.

Correct answer(s):

1. Managing interfaces used to share knowledge assets over a network between a supplier and the company
2. Ensuring that a CI is only released into operational use after formal authorization
3. Integrating data from the fixed asset register with the CMS

2. Transition planning

The purpose of the transition planning and support process is to provide overall planning for Service Transition processes and to coordinate the resources that they require.

The objectives of transition planning and support are to monitor and improve the performance of the Service Transition stage and to
coordinate resourcesDuring transition planning and support, you plan and coordinate the resources needed to ensure that an organization's Service Strategy can be effectively realized, given the design specifications provided.coordinate activitiesTo ensure transition planning runs smoothly, you need to coordinate activities across projects, suppliers, and service teams where required.establish new or changed IT servicesThe end result of transition planning and support is a new or changed IT service entering a supported environment within the predicted cost, quality, and time estimates.establish new systems and toolsTo plan for a Service Transition, you may need to modify or establish new management information systems, tools, technology, and management architectures. You may also need to establish new Service Management processes, as well as methods for measuring whether requirements established during the Service Design stage of the lifecycle are being met.ensure the adoption of a common frameworkTo improve the effectiveness and efficiency of planning and coordination activities, you need to ensure that all parties adopt a common framework of standard re-usable processes and supporting systems.provide clear plans, andTo enable customers and those responsible for managing business change projects to align their activities with Service Transition plans, you need to provide them with the plans – which should be clear and comprehensive.manage risksTo minimize the chance of failure and disruption across transition activities, you need to identify, manage, and control risks. 

You should also ensure that Service Transition issues, risks, and deviations are reported to the appropriate stakeholders and decision makers.
The scope of transition planning and support includes
maintaining policiesTransition planning and support involves maintaining policies, standards, and models for Service Transition activities and processes. For example, policies may require the use of a Responsible, Accountable, Consulted, and Informed (RACI) matrix to manage roles and responsibilities for implementing a change project.guiding changesYou need to guide each major change or new IT service through all the Service Transition processes and prioritize conflicting requirements for Service Transition resources. 

For example, test environments for new support software may be in short supply. To guide the changes, you need to prioritize which software to test first.coordinating activitiesWhen planning and supporting transitions, you need to coordinate activities so multiple transitions can be managed simultaneously. 

This coordination should fit seamlessly with program and project management, Service Design, and service development activities.planning resource requirements, andYou need to ensure that the budget for a Service Transition is well planned and that there are sufficient resources to fulfill future requirements.reviewing planning and support activitiesYou should review and improve the performance of transition planning and support activities at the closure of each project.
The scope of transition planning and support doesn't include planning the build, test, and deployment of individual service changes or releases. 

These activities occur as part of both Change Management and Release and Deployment Management.



Question

What activities fall within the scope of the transition planning and support process?

Options:
1.Update the Change Management policy document to include new required standards
2.Oversee the change to an online helpdesk process through all Service Transition requirements
3.List and price all components you'll need to train current employees in implementing the new IT service
4.Create an overview of the impact a changed IT service has on customer satisfaction levels
5.Review training materials developed to encourage service redesign

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The scope of transition planning and support includes maintaining policies, standards and models for Service Transition activities and processes.

Option 2: Correct. The scope of transition planning and support includes guiding each major change or new IT service through all the Service Transition processes.

Option 3: Correct. The scope of transition planning and support includes planning the budget and resources needed to fulfill future requirements for Service Transition.

Option 4: Incorrect. The scope of transition planning and support includes reviewing and improving the performance of transition planning and support activities, rather than reviewing the consequences of releasing a new or changed service.

Option 5: Incorrect. The scope of transition planning and support includes reviewing and improving the performance of transition planning and support activities, rather than reviewing a service itself.

Correct answer(s):

1. Update the Change Management policy document to include new required standards
2. Oversee the change to an online helpdesk process through all Service Transition requirements
3. List and price all components you'll need to train current employees in implementing the new IT service

3. Validation and testing

The service validation and testing process provides quality assurance within the Service Transition domain. It verifies that a new or changed IT service is fit for purpose and fit for use.

Service validation and testing is the last process in Service Transition. Once this process completes, the IT service is moved into a live environment.

The purpose of the service validation and testing process is to ensure that a new or changed IT service matches its design specification and will meet business needs. Several objectives are linked to service validation and testing:
• quality assurance for a release, its constituent service components, the resultant service, and the service capability delivered by a release 
• validation that a service is "fit for purpose" – or will deliver the required utility 
• assurance that a service is "fit for use" – or will deliver the agreed warranty 
• confirmation that customer requirements for the new or changed service are correctly defined 
• planning and implementation of a structured validation and testing process, and 
• ongoing review that identifies, assesses, and addresses issues, errors, and risks throughout the Service Transition stage 

Testing directly supports the Release and Deployment Management process by ensuring that appropriate levels of testing are performed during Release and Deployment Management activities.

It evaluates the detailed service models to ensure that they are fit for purpose and fit for use before being authorized to enter Service Operation, through the service catalogue.

The output from testing is used by the change evaluation process to provide information on whether the service is formally judged to be delivering the service performance with an acceptable risk profile.

Testing can be classified according to the end user of a service product.
Customer service testingWith customer service testing, a Service Level Agreement (SLA) guides testing and aims to ensure that the service provider takes responsibility for delivering, operating, and maintaining customer or service assets at the agreed levels.

Service validation and testing can be applied throughout the Service Lifecycle to quality assure any aspect of a service and the service providers' capability, resources, and capacity to deliver a service or service release successfully. 

When validating and testing an end-to-end service, the interfaces to suppliers, customers, and partners are important. 
Testing of inhouse servicesTesting is as important for inhouse services as for services provided to external customers.

It includes testing of new or changed IT services or service components, and examines the behavior of these in the target business unit, service unit, deployment group, or environment.

This environment could include aspects outside the control of the service provider – for example, public networks, user skill levels, or customer assets. 



Question

What activities fall within the scope of the service validation and testing process?

Options:
1.Providing quality assurance on the design of a service in terms of the organizations resources capacity
2.Examining the behavior of service components, such as Internet access, in target business units
3.Ensuring that appropriate levels of testing are performed during Release and Deployment Management activities
4.Testing and ensuring that a service will deliver the needed utility
5.Ensuring that CIs are identified, baselined, and maintained
6.Managing environmental issues such as cooling, fire protections, and physical access control

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Service validation and testing can be applied throughout the Service Lifecycle to quality assure any aspect of a service and the service providers' capability to deliver a service or service release successfully.

Option 2: Correct. The testing of new or changed inhouse IT services or service components requires the examination of the behavior of these in the target business unit. This is within the scope of the service validation and testing process.

Option 3: Correct. Service validation and testing directly supports the Release and Deployment Management process by ensuring that appropriate levels of testing are performed during Release and Deployment Management activities.

Option 4: Correct. Validation and testing includes ensure that service models are fit for purpose and fit for use before being authorized to enter Service Operation.

Option 5: Incorrect. This activity is part of the SACM process. A CI is a service asset that needs to be managed to deliver an IT service.

Option 6: Incorrect. This activity is part of the release build and test phase of Release and Deployment Management.

Correct answer(s):

1. Providing quality assurance on the design of a service in terms of the organizations resources capacity
2. Examining the behavior of service components, such as Internet access, in target business units
3. Ensuring that appropriate levels of testing are performed during Release and Deployment Management activities
4. Testing and ensuring that a service will deliver the needed utility

4. Summary

The SACM process ensures that the assets required to deliver IT services are properly controlled, and that accurate and reliable information about those assets is available when and where it's needed. SACM's scope includes management of the complete lifecycle of every CI.

The transition planning and support process provides overall planning and coordinates the required resources. This doesn't include creating detailed plans, but rather guiding changes, maintaining policies, and coordinating activities.

The service validation and testing process provides quality assurance by testing and validating Service Design, releases, and deployment. Its role is to ensure that a new or changed IT service is fit for purpose and fit for use.

Back to top
 

Understanding Service Transition Processes
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•describe examples of Service Transition policies
•identify the activities of the phases of the Release and Deployment Management process
•identify the Knowledge Management structure
•describe the scopes of the asset transition, service support, and testing processes
 
1. Exercise overview

In this exercise, you're required to recognize Service Transition policies and processes.

This involves the following tasks:
•matching principles to examples of Service Transition policies
•identifying activities in each phase of the Release and Deployment Management process
•recognizing the Knowledge Management structure, and
•identifying activities in the asset transition, service support, and testing processes

2. Recognizing Service Transition policies

ITIL® outlines 14 examples of Service Transition policies that organizations can use when developing customized policies for managing the Service Transition process.



Question

Match principles to the Service Transition policies to which they apply.

Options:
A.Communicate formally approved and standardized guidelines for Service Transition
B.Create a single focal point from which changes are managed and overseen
C.Use industry accepted best practices

Targets:
1.Define and implement a formal policy for Service Transition
2.Implement all changes to services through Service Transition
3.Adopt a common framework and standards

Answer

A formal policy for Service Transition should be defined, documented, and formally approved by the management team. It should also be communicated to all relevant stakeholders. 

To implement all changes to services through Service Transition, service changes should be managed from a single focal point and their scope must be documented.

By using industry accepted best practices, you improve integration across the supply chain and promote the adoption of a common framework and standards.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C



Question

Match principles to more examples of Service Transition policies.

Options:
A.Design Service Transition models that enable easy customization to suit specific circumstances
B.Compare the actual performance of a transitioned service against the predicted performance
C.Set expectations on performance and gain commitment from key suppliers 

Targets:
1.Maximize re-use of established processes and systems
2.Align Service Transition plans with the business needs
3.Establish and maintain relationships with stakeholders

Answer

To maximize re-use of established processes and systems, you need to design Service Transition models that enable easy customization to suit specific circumstances.

To align Service Transition plans with business needs, you can compare the actual performance of services after a transition against the predicted performance defined in Service Design with the aim of reducing variations in service capability and performance.

To establish and maintain relationships with stakeholders, you need to regularly communicate and set expectations on performance and share plans and other potential changes.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C



Question

Match principles to further examples of Service Transition policies.

Options:
A.Assigned roles should be stored within the configuration management system
B.Establish a consolidated database of information to be shared
C.Use deployment mechanisms to ensure component integrity during installation
D.Manage and reduce issues and errors during Service Transition to reduce costs and re-work

Targets:
1.Establish effective controls and disciplines
2.Provide systems for knowledge transfer and decision support
3.Plan release package
4.Proactively improve quality during Service Transition

Answer

To establish effective controls and disciplines, you need to specify roles and responsibilities. The assigned roles should be stored within the Service Knowledge Management System and the Configuration Management System.

For knowledge transfer and decision support it's useful to use definitive source of knowledge and share this information across the Service Lifecycle and with stakeholders. It's also helpful to provide consolidated information to enable change and to expedite effective decisions.

When planning a release package, you could use release and deployment mechanisms to ensure component integrity during installation, handling, packaging and delivery.

To improve quality during Service Transition, it's useful to proactively manage and reduce incidents and errors during Service Transition. 

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D



Question

Match principles to the remaining examples of Service Transition policies.

Options:
A.Encourage stakeholders to expect changes and understand that these are necessary and beneficial
B.Establish shared and dedicated capacity across transition activities
C.Establish suitable error detection at the start of a Service Transition project to reduce rectification costs 
D.Ensure changes can be delivered within specification and test environments reflect the live environment

Targets:
1.Anticipate and manage course corrections
2.Proactively manage resources across Service Transitions
3.Ensure early involvement in the Service Lifecycle
4.Provide assurance of the quality of the new or changed IT service

Answer

To anticipate and manage course corrections, you need to encourage stakeholders to expect changes and identify them as necessary. Employees should be trained in managing course corrections.

To proactively manage resources, you need a capable team to implement the change through all lifecycle phases. You should establish shared, dedicated, and specialist resources across Service Transition activities to eliminate delays and optimize utilization of resources.

The establishment of suitable controls and disciplines at the earliest stages ensures early detection or errors and reduces the cost of fixing these. 

Service Transition is responsible for assuring that the changes can be delivered according to specification through the use of quality assurance, evaluations, and testing. 

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

3. Managing release and deployment

The Release and Deployment Management process includes four phases – release and deployment planning, release build and test, deployment, and review and close.



Graphic

The Release and Deployment Management graphic consists of release planning, release build and test, release deployment, and review and close.



Question

What activities should be performed during the release and deployment planning phase?

Options:
1.Set a schedule for deployment and release
2.Set pass or fail criteria for the changed or new IT service
3.Define a configuration baseline for the build environment
4.Ensure that required actions, necessary fixes, and changes are complete
5.Review performance targets and achievements

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The plan for the release should contain data about the release scope, risks, team, schedule, delivery, resources and the key stakeholders.

Option 2: Correct. When planning the release, you need to identify the pass or fail criteria for the service, so it can be properly tested, assessed, and reviewed.

Option 3: Correct. During this phase, you establish the logistics and schedules, define a configuration baseline for the build environment, test the build and related procedures, and assign resources, roles, and responsibilities to perform key activities.

Option 4: Incorrect. These activities occur at a later phase in the Release and Deployment Management process.

Option 5: Incorrect. Reviewing targets and achievements occurs at a later phase in the Release and Deployment Management process.

Correct answer(s):

1. Set a schedule for deployment and release
2. Set pass or fail criteria for the changed or new IT service
3. Define a configuration baseline for the build environment



Question

What activities should occur during the release build and test phase?

Options:
1.Managing environmental issues – for example by implementing cooling systems
2.Documenting service baseline management
3.Gain team support for the function and process changes generated by the release
4.Provide overall planning for Service Transitions and coordinate the required resources
5.Audit quality of Service Design against customer requirements

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Activities in the release build and test phase include controlling access rights to physical and technology components and managing environmental issues – for example, by implementing cooling, fire precautions, and safety measures.

Option 2: Correct. The release build and test phase includes managing and documenting build and test activities, such as those associated with version control, baseline management, generation of test reports, and control of outputs.

Option 3: Incorrect. During this phase the service release is promoted or handed over to the next stage or team. It does not involve gaining support for the function and process changes generated by the release.

Option 4: Incorrect. This phase starts with Change Management authorization to build the release and ends with Change Management authorization for the baselined release package to be checked into the definitive media library, or DML, by Service Asset and Configuration Management, or SACM. It doesn't involve overall Service Transition planning or coordination of the required resources.

Option 5: Incorrect. This phase focuses specifically on building and testing a release. It doesn't involve evaluating the quality of Service Design.

Correct answer(s):

1. Managing environmental issues – for example by implementing cooling systems
2. Documenting service baseline management



Question

What activities should be performed during the deployment phase?

Options:
1.Assign a technician to the software testing of the new report-generation application
2.Prepare stakeholders to implement the handover to the Service Operation functions
3.Deploy the release package to one or more target environments
4.Set baseline for the service during testing
5.Document version control of the service build

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Assigning individuals to specific activities is an activity in the deployment phase. An example is assigning a specific technician to complete initial testing of software.

Option 2: Correct. This phase ends with handover of a release to the Service Operation functions and early-life support. So it includes preparing stakeholders for the handover of Service Operation functions.

Option 3: Correct. This phase starts with Change Management authorization to deploy the release package to one or more target environments.

Option 4: Incorrect. Setting baselines should be performed during the release build and test phase.

Option 5: Incorrect. Document version control should occur during the release build and test phase. 

Correct answer(s):

1. Assign a technician to the software testing of the new report-generation application
2. Prepare stakeholders to implement the handover to the Service Operation functions
3. Deploy the release package to one or more target environments



Question

What activities belong in the review and close phase?

Options:
1.Capture experiences and feedback on customer, user, and service provider satisfaction
2.Check that relevant stakeholders are aware of known errors and accept the workarounds
3.Review performance targets, achievements, and the risk register
4.Ensure senior management accepts the associated deployment costs
5.Assign resources, roles, and responsibilities for key Service Transition activities

Answer

Option 1: Correct. When reviewing a deployment during this phase, you should capture experiences and feedback on customer, user, and service provider satisfaction.

Option 2: Correct. During this phase, you need to check that any problems, known errors, and workarounds are documented and that these are accepted by relevant stakeholders, such as customers or suppliers.

Option 3: Correct. Before closing the phase, you need to make sure there are no remaining capability, resource, capacity, or performance issues that need to be addressed. To do this, it's useful to review performance targets, achievements, and the risk register. 

Option 4: Incorrect. Ensuring senior management accepts the deployment costs is part of the deployment phase.

Option 5: Incorrect. Assigning resources, roles, and responsibilities is associated with the release and deployment planning phase.

Correct answer(s):

1. Capture experiences and feedback on customer, user, and service provider satisfaction
2. Check that relevant stakeholders are aware of known errors and accept the workarounds
3. Review performance targets, achievements, and the risk register

4. Recognizing the DIKW structure

Data-to-Information-to-Knowledge-to-Wisdom (DIKW) is a structure that helps you identify Knowledge Management processes.



Question

Sequence examples of information based on the order in which the elements appear in the DIKW structure.

Options:
A.An error detected during testing is documented and numbered
B.A file documents the total number of errors found using specific error categories
C.The design team notes that most coding errors are associated with selecting and using formulas
D.Coders are given an overview of how an application works in a live environment, resulting in fewer errors

Answer

Correct answer(s):
An error detected during testing is documented and numbered is ranked This is a discrete fact so it's an example of data. As such it's the first element in the DIKW Knowledge Management structure.A file documents the total number of errors found using specific error categories is ranked This is an example of information – the base data, or context for it, has been developed in the form of specific error categories. So this is the second element in the DIKW Knowledge Management structure.The design team notes that most coding errors are associated with selecting and using formulas is ranked This is an example of knowledge because it represents understanding of the transition in progress, experience of previous transitions, and awareness of anticipated changes. So this is the third element in the DIKW Knowledge Management structure.Coders are given an overview of how an application works in a live environment, resulting in fewer errors is ranked This is an example of wisdom as it provides the most context and understanding to a pattern of service delivery and finds strong common-sense judgment. So this is the final element in the DIKW Knowledge Management structure.
5. Identifying activities

As part of Service Transition Management, you need to address Service Asset and Configuration Management (SACM), transition planning and support, and service validation and testing.



Question

What activities are associated with SACM?

Options:
1.Ensure that servers managed in the transition are identified, baselined, and maintained 
2.Test a virtual server to gain baseline performance data for a new inhouse service
3.Maintain an accurate and complete Configuration Management System
4.Record the relationship between the virtual and the physical server, which are both used to support delivery or the new service
5.Check that known errors and workarounds are accepted by users and customers
6.Train employees in how to document unexpected changes in service performance

Answer

Option 1: Correct. You need to identify all Configuration Items (CIs), document baseline performance, maintain the CIs, and ensure that changes to them are controlled.

Option 2: Correct. You need to determine the baseline for Configuration Items used in Service Transition.

Option 3: Correct. An objective of this stage is to ensure the integrity of Configuration Items by establishing and maintaining an accurate and complete CMS.

Option 4: Correct. Activity in this phase provides a configuration model of the services and service assets by recording the relationships between Configuration Items.

Option 5: Incorrect. This is an activity associated with review and close phase of Release and Deployment Management.

Option 6: Incorrect. This is not an aspect of Asset and Configuration Management, but is a principle of the anticipate and manage course corrections policy.

Correct answer(s):

1. Ensure that servers managed in the transition are identified, baselined, and maintained 
2. Test a virtual server to gain baseline performance data for a new inhouse service
3. Maintain an accurate and complete Configuration Management System
4. Record the relationship between the virtual and the physical server, which are both used to support delivery or the new service



Question

What options describe the transition planning and support process?

Options:
1.It provides overall planning for Service Transitions and coordinates the resources that they require
2.It aims to modify or establish new management information systems, tools, and technology
3.It works to ensure that all parties adopt standard processes and supporting systems
4.Check the budget planning to ensure resources needed to fulfill future requirements are sufficient
5.Create detailed plans for the deployment of individual changes
6.Control changes to Configuration Items such as virtual servers

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The scope of the transition planning and support process includes providing overall planning for Service Transitions and coordinating the resources that they require.

Option 2: Correct. To plan for a support a transition, you may need to establish new management information systems, tools, technology and management architectures. You may also need to establish new Service Management processes, measurement methods, and metrics to meet requirements established during the Service Design stage of the lifecycle.

Option 3: Correct. To improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the integrated planning and coordination activities, you need to ensure that all parties adopt the common framework of standard re-usable processes and supporting systems.

Option 4: Correct. Part of planning resource requirements to support Service Transition is to ensure that the budget for the transition is well planned and that there are sufficient resources needed to fulfill future requirements for Service Transition.

Option 5: Incorrect. The scope of transition planning and support management does not include the responsibility for detailed planning of the build, test, and deployment of individual changes or releases.

Option 6: Incorrect. This activity falls under the scope of Asset and Configuration Management.

Correct answer(s):

1. It provides overall planning for Service Transitions and coordinates the resources that they require
2. It aims to modify or establish new management information systems, tools, and technology
3. It works to ensure that all parties adopt standard processes and supporting systems
4. Check the budget planning to ensure resources needed to fulfill future requirements are sufficient



Question

What are examples of activities in the service validation and testing process?

Options:
1.Assess the quality and service capability delivered by a release
2.Determine whether the service will deliver the agreed warranty
3.Confirm that customer requirements are correctly defined
4.Refer to the Service Level Agreement (SLA) to set parameters for testing
5.Design capability around shared and specifically designated resources
6.Control access rights to physical and technology components

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Service validation and testing includes providing quality assurance for a release, its constituent service components, the resultant service, and the service capability delivered by a release.

Option 2: Correct. The scope of service validation and testing includes assurance that a service is fit for use – it will deliver the agreed warranty. It establishes that the Service Design and release will deliver a new or changed IT service or service offering that is fit for purpose and fit for use. 

Option 3: Correct. Service validation and testing requires confirmation that customer requirements for the new or changed service are correctly defined.

Option 4: Correct. This phase needs to ensure that there is structured planning and implementation of validation and testing processes. To do this, the SLA guides testing and aims to ensure the service provider takes responsibility for delivering, operating, and maintaining customer or service assets.

Option 5: Incorrect. This is part of Resource Management and is not directly within the scope of validation and testing.

Option 6: Incorrect. During the release build and test phase, you need to manage the build and test environments by controlling access rights and managing environmental issues.

Correct answer(s):

1. Assess the quality and service capability delivered by a release
2. Determine whether the service will deliver the agreed warranty
3. Confirm that customer requirements are correctly defined
4. Refer to the Service Level Agreement (SLA) to set parameters for testing

Example Service Transition policies have been matched to corresponding principles, activities in each phase of the Release and Deployment Management process have been identified, and the components of the DIKW structure have been recognized. Activities in the SACM, transition planning and support, and service validation and testing processes have also been identified.

Back to top
 

Change Management
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•differentiate between the types of service change in the Change Management process
•identify the interfaces of the Change Management process
 
1. Purpose and scope

Change in relation to the IT function refers to the addition, modification, or removal of anything that could have an effect on IT services. This includes changes to architectures, processes, tools, metrics, and documentation, as well as changes to IT services and Configuration Items (CIs).

Changes may be made proactively – for example, when organizations are actively seeking business benefits such as reduction in costs, improved services, or increased ease and effectiveness of support.

Alternatively, changes may be made reactively, in order to respond to errors that occur or adapt to changing circumstances.

Change Management is the process in the Service Transition stage that's responsible for controlling the lifecycle of all changes to IT services. Its primary purpose is to ensure that only beneficial changes are made and that these result in minimal disruption.



Graphic

The ITIL® Service Lifecycle consists of the phases Service Strategy, Service Design, Service Transition, Service Operation, and Continual Service Improvement.

The purpose of the Change Management process is to control the lifecycle of all changes, enabling beneficial changes to be made with minimal disruption to IT services. To accomplish this, Change Management aims to
maximize valueAn aim of Change Management is to respond to customers' changing business requirements while maximizing value and reducing incidents, disruption, and the need for re-work within the organization.align servicesChange Management aims to align business and IT Requests for Change (RFCs), in turn helping align IT services with business needs.control and document changes, andAn aim of Change Management is to ensure that IT changes are recorded and evaluated, and that authorized changes are prioritized, planned, tested, implemented, documented, and reviewed in a controlled manner. This includes ensuring that all changes to CIs are recorded in the Configuration Management System (CMS).optimize riskSometimes it's appropriate to knowingly accept a risk because potential benefits may outweigh the risk. At other times, it's best to minimize risk. Effective Change Management balances the risks associated with making changes to IT services, ensuring that only changes with acceptable risk profiles are implemented.
The Change Management process for an IT service providing organization interfaces with the processes used by business and suppliers at the strategic, tactical, and operational levels. It also interfaces with the processes used by internal and external IT service providers, where changes to shared assets and CIs need to be managed.



Graphic

A diagram shows that an IT service provider manages changes to IT services at the strategic change level, changes to a Service Portfolio at the tactical change level, and changes to Service Operations at the operational change level.

A business manages changes to the business at the strategic change level, changes to the business processes at a tactical change level, and changes to business operations at an operational change level.

A supplier manages changes to the supplier's business at the strategic change level, changes to external services at the tactical change level, and changes to external operations at the operational change level.

Strategic changes of business, service provider, and supplier are linked, as are those on the tactical change levee and the operational change level.

Change Management must interface with business Change Management and with the supplier's Change Management. This may be an external supplier within a formal Change Management system, or the project change mechanisms within an internal development project.

The Service Portfolio resides at a tactical level within the service provider offering. This portfolio provides a clear definition of all current, planned, and retired services. Understanding the Service Portfolio helps all parties involved in the Service Transition stage to understand the potential impact of an IT service change on current services and on services in the pipeline.



Graphic

The Service Portfolio is at the center of the tactical change process and has a two way link to managing IT services (service provider), managing the business process (business), and managing external services (supplier). The Service Portfolio also has a two-way link to Service Operations - which is the service provider's responsibility at an operational change level.

Change Management isn't responsible for coordinating all of the Service Management processes to ensure the smooth implementation of projects. Instead, this is achieved through transition planning and support.

An organization should define the types of changes that lie outside the scope of its Change Management process. 

Typically these include changes that have significantly wider impacts than IT service changes or changes at an operational level.

For example, out-of-scope changes might include broad changes to policies or to business operations. Before these could be handled through an IT Change Management process, they'd have to be translated into RFCs associated with required IT service changes.

2. Service change types

Typically all changes are initiated via a documented request of some kind. The level of detail and the type of authorization required generally depends on the nature of the change. 

Changes are often categorized as major, significant, or minor – depending on the level of cost and risk involved, and on the scope of a change and its relationship to other changes.

The way a change is categorized may be used to identify an appropriate change authority.

A best practice is for an organization to predefine change models and apply them to appropriate changes when they occur, based on their own environment and needs. 

A change model defines an agreed sequence of steps and support tools for handling a particular type of change. It helps ensure that changes are handled consistently and in alignment with predefined timescales.

As well as outlining steps for handling a particular type of change, a change model should define any dependencies among the steps or required co-processing. It should also include a list of responsibilities, the people to whom these are assigned, and timescales and thresholds for completion of the defined steps.

Finally, a change model should define an appropriate escalation procedure, identifying who should be contacted and when.

The three main informational documents associated with initiating and controlling Change Management are
change proposalsThe Service Portfolio Management process, or program or project management, ensures change proposals are submitted to Change Management before chartering new or changed IT services. These documents are used to ensure that potential conflicts for resources or other issues are identified.

A change proposal communicates a high-level description of the proposed change, including business outcomes to be supported, and utility and warranty to be provided. It should also include a schedule and a full business case including risks, alternatives, and budget and financial expectations.

Authorization of the change proposal doesn't authorize implementation of the change but simply allows the service to be chartered so that Service Design can commence.RFCs, andAn RFC is a formal and documented – either written or electronic – proposal for a change to be made. It includes details of the proposed change. The term RFC is often misused to mean a change record, or the change itself.

RFCs are only used to submit requests. They are not used to communicate the decisions of Change Management or to document the details of the change. 

RFCs could include a service desk call, a project initiation document, or a specific RFC template.change recordsA change record is a record that documents the lifecycle of a single change, and is used to manage the lifecycle of that change. 

A change record is created for every RFC, including those that are subsequently rejected. 

A change record should reference the CIs affected by the proposed change, and all the required information about a change, including information from the RFC. 

Change records may be stored in the CMS or elsewhere in the Service Knowledge Management System (SKMS).

Various processes may generate change proposals, which are then submitted to Change Management. For example, change proposals may result from activities in the Service Portfolio Management, Continual Service Improvement, Service Level Management, and Service Catalog Management processes.

In addition, errors or problems identified during the Service Operation stage may result in the generation of a formal RFC.

The Change Management process involves reviewing each change proposal and the current change schedule, identifying any potential conflicts or issues, and either authorizing the proposed change or documenting the issues that need to be resolved.

Once a change proposal is authorized, the change schedule should be updated to include an outline of implementation dates for the change.

After the new or changed service is chartered, RFCs are used to request authorization for specific changes. These RFCs should be associated with the change proposal so that Change Management has a view of the overall strategic intent and can prioritize and review the RFCs appropriately.

Different types of change may require different types of change requests.

The three basic types of service changes are
standardA standard change is any change that can be viewed as a pre-approved change, with authorization effectively given in advance. Budgetary approval will typically be preordained or within the control of the party requesting the change.

A defined trigger initiates a standard change. An example could be a request from a user to reset a password, or to increase the size of the user's mailbox in an e-mail application. A standardized procedure should exist for implementing the change, which occurs commonly or is expected.

Standard changes typically involve low risks and costs, and low levels of effort to implement.emergency, andAn emergency change has to be implemented as soon as possible – for example, to resolve a major incident or implement a security patch when a high-risk threat is detected.

Emergency changes should be designed carefully and tested as much as possible before they're implemented, or the impact of the changes themselves may be worse than that of the original incident. However, there may be minimal time available for implementing these types of changes. Details of emergency changes may also be documented retrospectively.normalA normal change is any service change that isn't a standard or emergency change. So this type of change isn't associated with a pre-approved, standardized process, but also isn't categorized as an emergency. 

For example, an organization knows that one of its network software monitoring systems will have to be updated if it's to continue to support network traffic at optimal levels in the future. As a proactive measure, the organization decides to perform the update before performance issues occur. This is a normal change in that it should go through the formal and complete Change Management process.
No change should be authorized unless the question of what to do if the change isn't successful has been explicitly addressed. This type of plan is known as a remediation plan. It outlines the actions needed to recover after a failed IT change or release.

It's important to consider what remediation options are available as part of assessing the risk of a proposed change so that corrective action can be taken if necessary after an authorized change is implemented.

Remediation may include back-out plans, invocation of service continuity plans, or other actions designed to enable business processes to continue.

A back-out plan is typically the ideal remediation response. It specifies how to restore the organization to its initial state, often through the reloading of a baselined set of CIs – especially for software and data.

However, not all changes are reversible, so an alternative approach to remediation may be required. This could include revising the change itself in the event of failure, or – if the impact of a failure is severe, even invoking the organization's business continuity plan.

Change implementation plans should also include milestones and other triggers for implementation of remediation, to ensure there's sufficient time for back-out or other remediation when necessary.



Question

Match each example to the types of service change in the Change Management process to which it belongs.

Options:
A.Provision of defined equipment and services to a new employee
B.A minor change in an organization's payroll application is causing a slight decrease in capacity levels on a network server so you want to increase capacity on the overall network to support future requirements
C.A key server fails and a temporary replacement must be installed until the server is fixed

Targets:
1.Standard change
2.Normal change
3.Emergency change

Answer

Standard changes are those that are pre-approved, common, and associated with standardized processes. Examples are providing standard equipment and services to new employees, and removing user accounts when employees leave an organization.

Normal changes occur only from time to time, and aren't very urgent. They're not pre-approved and need to go through the full Change Management process. Adding capacity to a network or server to improve future network performance is an example of a normal change.

An emergency change is one that has to be implemented quickly to resolve a serious incident or prevent one from occurring. An example is configuring a replacement if a key server fails.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

3. Change Management interfaces

For Change Management to be effective, there are several other processes that it interfaces with.

Change Management works with transition planning and support to ensure that there's a coordinated approach to managing Service Transitions.

Change Management and Release and Deployment Management are also integrated – sharing processes used for organizational programs or projects to define clear boundaries, dependencies, and rules.

Change Management also interfaces with Supplier Management, where changes affect or may be affected by suppliers.

To ensure that information about changes is exchanged and cascaded throughout an organization, Change Management typically integrates with business change processes.

Where appropriate, Change Management should be involved with business program and business project management teams.

Close alignment between Change Management and program and project management is essential to ensure that the change schedule is effective and that all changes are well managed.

Changes to any business or project deliverables that don't impact services or service components may be subject to business or project Change Management procedures, rather than to IT Change Management procedures. In these cases, however, IT Change Management is still involved in
managing configuration baselinesCare must be taken to ensure that changes to service configuration baselines and releases follow the Change Management process.liaising with project teamsThe Change Management team will be expected to liaise closely with project teams to ensure smooth implementation and consistency within the changing environments.handling change proposalsThe Service Portfolio Management process will submit change proposals to Change Management before chartering new or changed IT services, in order to ensure that potential conflicts for resources or other issues are identified.
The Change Management process also interfaces with change evaluation. There should be clear agreement on which types of change will be subject to formal change evaluation, and the time required for this evaluation must be included in the overall planning for the change. 

Change Management provides the trigger for change evaluation, and the evaluation report must be delivered to Change Management in time for the change authority to use it to assist in decision-making.

The three remaining key interfaces with Change Management are
Stakeholder Change ManagementSome organizations have a separate function to manage organizational changes – known as Stakeholder Change Management. In other organizations this function is carried out by the IT function. 

Whether these functions are separate or not, the organizational aspects of Change Management need to be properly considered and the Change Management process needs appropriate interfaces with the people carrying out this work.sourcing and partnering, andSourcing and partnering relationships cover internal and external vendors and suppliers who are providing a new or existing IT service to the organization. 

Effective Change Management practices are needed to manage these relationships effectively and to ensure smooth delivery of services. You should also find out how partners manage change within their own organization.

Sourcing and partnering arrangements should define the level of autonomy a partner may have in effecting change. Some organizations in outsourcing situations refer RFCs to their suppliers for estimates prior to authorization of changes.Service ManagementAll Service Management processes may require Change Management, for example to implement process improvements. 

Many Service Management processes will also be involved in the impact assessment and implementation of service changes.


Question

What are key interfaces of the Change Management process?

Options:
1.Integration with business change processes 
2.Alignment with program and project management 
3.A focus on organizational and Stakeholder Change Management 
4.Alignment with sourcing and partnering
5.Integration with auditing and security functions
6.Alignment with redundancy and storage management

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Integration with business change processes is important. Where appropriate, Change Management should be involved with business program and business project management teams to ensure that change issues, aims, impacts and developments are exchanged and cascaded throughout the organization.

Option 2: Correct. Program and project management is a key interface. Close alignment between Change Management and program and project management is essential to ensure that the change schedule is effective and that all changes are well managed. 

Option 3: Correct. Organizational and Stakeholder Change Management is a key interface. Organizational aspects of Change Management need to be properly considered and the Change Management process should have appropriate interfaces with the people carrying out this work.

Option 4: Correct. Effective Change Management practices are needed to manage sourcing and relationships to ensure smooth delivery of service and that partners use Change Management processes that you can easily align with.

Option 5: Incorrect. Although Change Management has many interfaces, it doesn't require integration with auditing and security functions. It does, however, share a strong interface with change evaluation.

Option 6: Incorrect. Although Change Management has many interfaces, it doesn't require alignment with redundancy and storage management functions. 

Correct answer(s):

1. Integration with business change processes 
2. Alignment with program and project management 
3. A focus on organizational and Stakeholder Change Management 
4. Alignment with sourcing and partnering

4. Summary

The scope of Change Management includes changes to all architectures, processes, tools, metrics, and documentation, as well as changes to IT services and other CIs. Change Management aims to maximize value, align services, optimize risk, and control and document changes.

Documentation associated with the change process include change proposals, RFCs, and change records. Changes may fall under three basic categories that influence how the change is managed. These categories are standard change, normal change, and emergency change.

Change Management interfaces closely with several other processes. These include transition planning and support, Release and Deployment Management, Supplier Management, business change processes, program and project management, managing configuration baselines, liaising with project teams, handling change proposals, change evaluation, Stakeholder Change Management, sourcing and partnering, and Service Management.

Back to top
 

Normal and Emergency Changes in Change Management 
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•identify the stages of the normal change lifecycle
•identify the aspects of the change procedure that could differ from a normal change procedure in emergency changes
 
1. Normal change lifecycle

ITIL® defines the normal change lifecycle as including eight steps. Following these steps can help ensure effective Change Management.



Graphic

The steps of the normal change lifecycle are to 1. create RFC, 2. review RFC, 3. evaluate change, 4. authorize change build and test, 5. coordinate the change build and test, 6. authorize deployment, 7. coordinate deployment, and 8. review and close.

The first four steps in the normal change lifecycle focus on assessment and authorization for building and testing changes.
1. Create RFCThe individual or group proposing a change creates the Request for Change (RFC).

All RFCs received should be logged and allocated identification numbers in chronological sequence. If a change request is submitted in response to a trigger, such as a resolution to a problem record, the reference number of a document about the triggering event should also be recorded. 
2. Review RFCChange Management should ensure that RFCs include all required information. Incomplete or impractical RFCs should be returned, together with brief details of why they've been rejected – and the status of the RFCs should be logged.

If an RFC is accepted, it will move on to the next step. 
3. Evaluate changeChanges considered to be significant – based on well-defined criteria – should be subject to the formal change evaluation process. A formal request for evaluation should be submitted to trigger this process.

When formal change evaluation isn't required, a proposed change may be assessed more informally. 
4. Authorize change build and testFormal authorization for any change should be obtained from a suitable change authority, which may be an individual or a group of people. The levels of authorization required for a particular type of change should be based on the type, size, risk, and potential business impact of the change.

Where disputes arise over change authorization or rejection, there should be a right of appeal to an authority at a higher level. Changes that have been rejected should be formally reviewed, documented, and closed. 

Consider an example. First the IT Department in an organization receives an RFC from the Sales Department, requesting that a secure server be set up for e-commerce purposes. This is passed to the IT Change Management team.



Graphic

1. Create RFC is highlighted in the lifecycle diagram.

The team then reviews the RFC, checking that it contains all required information.



Graphic

2. Review RFC is highlighted in the lifecycle diagram.

As the third step, the Change Management team assesses and evaluates the proposed change, using a set of seven "R" questions:



Graphic

3. Evaluate change is highlighted in the lifecycle diagram.
• Who raised the change? 
• What is the reason for the change? 
• What return is required from the change? 
• What risks are involved in the change? 
• What resources are required to deliver the change? 
• Who is responsible for the build, test and implementation of the change? 
• What is the relationship between this change and other changes? 

As the fourth step in the normal change lifecycle, the proposed change – which is judged to be of value – is formally authorized by the members of a Change Advisory Board (CAB).



Graphic

4. Authorize change build and test is highlighted in the lifecycle diagram.

Steps 5 to 8 are the final four steps in the normal change lifecycle.
5. Coordinate change build and testIf an authorized change is part of a release, then packaging the change into a release and building and testing it is coordinated through the Release and Deployment Management process. For simple changes that aren't part of a release, the Change Management process coordinates building and testing.

Change Management is also responsible for ensuring that changes are thoroughly tested. Where emergency changes haven't been fully tested, special care needs to be taken during implementation.

Testing may continue in parallel with initial deployment of a service into the live environment so that further corrective action can be taken if necessary. 
6. Authorize deploymentThe design, build, and testing of a change should be evaluated to ensure that risks have been managed and that actual performance meets business requirements.

The change evaluation process generates an interim evaluation report for any significant changes. For smaller changes, the Change Management process carries out suitable checks. The result of this evaluation should be forwarded to the appropriate change authority for formal authorization to deploy the change.

If authorization isn't given at this stage, the change authority may request changes to the design or to the deployment schedule. 
7. Coordinate deploymentThe Change Management process coordinates deployment for simple changes that aren't part of a release. Change Management is responsible for ensuring that changes are deployed and scheduled when the least impact on live operations is likely. Support staff should be on hand to deal quickly with any incidents that might arise. 

Each deployment must be authorized. This may require that multiple RFCs be submitted. Alternatively, some organizations use a single RFC with multiple authorization stages.

Also, remediation procedures should be prepared and documented in advance in case errors occur. Authority and responsibility for invoking remediation should be specifically defined in change documentation. 
8. Review and closeBefore closing a change, it must be assessed in terms of its performance and to ensure that the change didn't introduce any unacceptable risks. The evaluation should also assess any associated incidents. If an external provider manages the change, details of any contractual service targets will be required.

For significant changes, the change evaluation process generates an evaluation report. For smaller changes, suitable checks are conducted as part of the Change Management process.

If the evaluation of a change is favorable, the change is presented as completed for change stakeholder agreement. Lessons learned should be recorded so they inform future changes. 

In the case of the request for a new e-commerce server, work orders for authorized changes are sent to hardware, security, and applications teams during the fifth step of the normal change lifecycle. These work orders are tracked and linked to the original RFCs. During Change Management the process is overseen to ensure that the server is thoroughly tested.



Graphic

5. Coordinate change build and test is highlighted in the lifecycle diagram.

Once testing is complete, a change authority reviews the interim evaluation report to ensure that the server can perform as required. It then formally authorizes deployment of the requested server.



Graphic

6. Authorized deployment is highlighted in the lifecycle diagram.

The Change Management team coordinates the deployment and monitors deadlines to ensure that all goes as scheduled.



Graphic

7. Coordinate deployment is highlighted in the lifecycle diagram.

Finally, the team assesses whether the new server is meeting the requirements of the Sales Department and overall organization.



Graphic

8. Review and close is highlighted in the lifecycle diagram.



Question

At a strategy meeting, you discover that your organization intends to increase the number of its employees by 7% in the next quarter. The network is currently handling demands well, but you suspect you'll need an additional server to balance network loads. So you create an RFC and send it to the Change Management team. The team asks you for further cost information, which you submit. It then authorizes the change.

Sequence the remaining examples of the steps in the normal change lifecycle.

Options:
A.A senior manager assesses the RFC and formally approves the request. 
B.Set up, build, and test server in high traffic scenarios
C.The server's performance is assessed against predictions, and the results show that the deployment schedule is pushed out and authorized
D.The server is configured during a low traffic period according to schedule
E.The overall performance of the server is assessed and the change record is filed

Answer

Correct answer(s):
A senior manager assesses the RFC and formally approves the request. is ranked This is part of the authorize change build and test step, and so is the fourth step in the process.Set up, build, and test server in high traffic scenarios is ranked This forms part of coordinating the change build and test, and is the fifth step of the change process.The server's performance is assessed against predictions, and the results show that the deployment schedule is pushed out and authorized is ranked This is an example of an action taken during the authorize change deployment step, and is the sixth step in the change process.The server is configured during a low traffic period according to schedule is ranked This is an example of how Change Management is expected to coordinate change deployment, and so is the seventh step in the process.The overall performance of the server is assessed and the change record is filed is ranked This activity occurs during the final review and closure of the change record, which is the final step in the normal change lifecycle.
2. Emergency change lifecycle

The number of emergency changes proposed should be kept to an absolute minimum because these types of changes tend to be disruptive and prone to failure. So as much as possible, all changes likely to be required should be anticipated and planned, bearing in mind the availability of resources to build and test the changes.

Also, when a change is needed urgently – because of poor planning or sudden changes in business requirements – it's preferable if it can be treated as a normal change but given the highest priority.

However, emergency changes may sometimes be required. It's important to have procedures in place for handling these quickly, but without sacrificing important management controls.

An emergency change procedure should generally be reserved for changes intended to repair errors in IT services that are having a significant, negative impact on a business's users or customers. 

Changes intended to introduce urgently required business improvements should be handled as normal changes, but assigned the highest urgency.

The emergency change lifecycle is basically the same as the normal change lifecycle. However, due to the time constraints in an emergency situation, some of the steps may be handled slightly differently.

Normal and emergency change procedures may differ in four basic areas.
AuthorizationOften in an emergency, a full CAB meeting can't be held. In cases where CAB authorization is required, an emergency CAB (ECAB) may then be established according to the organization's procedures for this.

Predictable emergency changes – such as server failures – are unlikely to need an ECAB. Instead, the authority to authorize these changes may be delegated to Service Operation functions, Technical Management, or Application Management.

Such delegation should be limited to actions that don't change the specification of service assets and don't attempt to correct software errors. With software incidents, it's best to revert to the previous trusted state or version, rather than attempting an unplanned and potentially dangerous change. 
TestingEmergency changes should be designed carefully and tested as much as possible before use, or the impact of the emergency change may be greater than the original incident.

Completely untested changes shouldn't be implemented if this is at all avoidable. The less a change is considered likely to fail, the more reasonable it may be to reduce the degree of testing in an emergency. 

When only limited testing is possible, then testing should be focused on aspects of the service that will be used immediately, or elements that could cause the most short-term inconvenience or errors once live in the environment. 
Change reviewIf a change fails to rectify the urgent outstanding error, iterative attempts at fixes may be necessary. Change Management should ensure that business needs remain the primary concern and that each iteration is controlled. Change Management should ensure that ineffective changes are swiftly backed out.

If too many attempts at an emergency change are ineffective, you need to consider whether the error has been correctly diagnosed, the resolution has been adequately tested, and the solution has been correctly implemented.

In such circumstances, it may be better to provide a partial service to allow the change to be thoroughly tested, or perhaps to suspend the service temporarily and then implement the change. 
DocumentationIt may not be possible to update all change records at the time that urgent actions are being completed. For example, these changes may occur overnight or during the weekend. 

It is, however, essential that temporary records are made during such periods, and that all records are completed retrospectively, at the earliest possible opportunity.

An agreed time for completing these updates should be documented when the change is authorized. 

Suppose an organization has multiple reports coming in of clients not able to log into their payroll systems. Through Problem Management procedures, it's discovered that a server has failed.

This requires an emergency change. The server hardware has to be repaired or replaced, and a small change in the server's configuration may be required. The change in this case can be authorized by operational staff, rather than requiring authorization by an ECAB.

Because of time constraints, only daily entry features for the payroll are tested. End-of-month routines are not tested at this point.

The team implementing the change documents who gave authority for it and keeps detailed notes on how the change is implemented. The notes state that full reports will be completed within three working days.



Question

A new virus infects an organization's network because of an operating system vulnerability. An immediate security patch is required to safeguard the network from further attacks.

What are examples of appropriate steps the team should take in this case, but that wouldn't be appropriate in a normal change procedure?

Options:
1.Gain authorization from an ECAB for the change
2.Run only basic tests on the security patch, scheduling more extensive testing once the patch is live
3.Keep brief notes of the change and set a deadline for full documentation of the change
4.Coordinate the deployment of the change ensuring that support staff are on hand to deal with any incidents that might arise
5.Document an RFC, log it, and ensure it's allocated an identification number

Answer

Option 1: Correct. There may not be time for a full CAB meeting. Because the change will affect the entire network, however, it's appropriate to ensure that the change is authorized by an ECAB.

Option 2: Correct. There is little time for full testing, however, it may be better to provide a partial service to allow the change to be thoroughly tested.

Option 3: Correct. Although full documentation is always required, this documentation can be deferred until after the change is implemented in emergency change scenarios.

Option 4: Incorrect. This is part of the normal change steps and responsibilities of Change Management.

Option 5: Incorrect. Documenting an RFC, logging it, and allocating an identification number is a step taken during the normal change lifecycle of Change Management.

Correct answer(s):

1. Gain authorization from an ECAB for the change
2. Run only basic tests on the security patch, scheduling more extensive testing once the patch is live
3. Keep brief notes of the change and set a deadline for full documentation of the change

3. Summary

ITIL® defines an eight-step process for the normal change lifecycle. It begins with creating an RFC, which is then reviewed. The proposed change is assessed and evaluated, and then the build and test is authorized and coordinated. Next deployment of the change is authorized and then coordinated. Finally, the change is reviewed and the relevant change record is closed.

If emergency changes have to be implemented, authentication processes, testing, review, and documentation processes may differ from those of a normal change lifecycle. This is due to the need for rapid responses in emergency situations.

Back to top
 

Managing IT Service Changes
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•differentiate between the types of service change in the Change Management process
•identify the normal change lifecycle process, given a scenario
•identify the emergency change procedures, given a scenario
 
1. Exercise overview

In this exercise, you're required to practice recognizing how to manage IT service changes.

This involves the following tasks:
•recognizing types of change, and
•identifying the steps in the change lifecycle process

2. Recognizing types of change

The way changes are managed should depend on how they're classified – as standard, normal, or emergency changes.



Question

Match each example to the corresponding category of change.

Options:
A.An administrator is asked to remove a set of user accounts of retired employees
B.A security manager requests host-based intrusion detection systems for a server that's scheduled to be set up in the next quarter
C.A vulnerability in network security has to be addressed as soon as possible to protect an organization's resources

Targets:
1.Standard change
2.Normal change
3.Emergency change

Answer

Routine changes such as deleting outdated user accounts are known as standard changes and are typically pre-approved.

A normal change is a scheduled change that requires approval before it's implemented. This would include planned upgrades of security, such as the use of additional intrusion detection systems.

An emergency change is a rapid response to an unplanned and immediate error or security issue that could have severe implications for business if it's not addressed immediately. An example is the change required in response to a significant vulnerability in network security.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

3. Recognizing change lifecycle actions



Question

The IT Department of an organization intends to upgrade all workstation security by rolling out a new anti-malware application. It has created and submitted a Request for Change (RFC). The RFC has been reviewed and forwarded, and the potential impact of the change has been assessed.

Place the remaining steps in the normal change lifecycle in the correct order.

Options:
A.Gain approval from the Change Advisory Board (CAB) to create the build
B.Monitor testing of the new application and ensure that testing is within schedule
C.Send results of testing for deployment authorization
D.Send out RFCs for rolling out the application in each department 
E.Review actual performance against estimates and document results

Answer

Correct answer(s):
Gain approval from the Change Advisory Board (CAB) to create the build is ranked The fourth step in the normal change lifecycle is to authorize the change build and test. This is typically authorized by a CAB.Monitor testing of the new application and ensure that testing is within schedule is ranked The fifth step in the normal change lifecycle is coordinating the change build and test. This includes ensuring there is sufficient testing of the release and that this phase is carried out within the defined schedule.Send results of testing for deployment authorization is ranked The sixth step in the normal change lifecycle is to authorize change deployment. Before this can be done, the results from the build and testing phase should be assessed.Send out RFCs for rolling out the application in each department is ranked The seventh step in the normal change lifecycle is to coordinate deployment. This may involve sending out multiple RFCs for different aspects of the deployment.Review actual performance against estimates and document results is ranked The final step in the normal change lifecycle is to review the change and to close the change record. Typically this review assesses actual performance against predicted performance and addresses any unexpected changes.


Question

During regular organizational audit activities, it's discovered that there's a vulnerability in network security, with users being allowed to install unauthorized software on individual workstations. This violates the organization's network security requirements and places the network at substantial risk. An immediate programming change is required to change the access levels of all users to appropriate settings.

What should you do when implementing this change that differs from what you'd do using a normal change procedure?

Options:
1.Convene an Emergency Change Advisory Board (ECAB) to authorize the change
2.Run testing for day-to-day activities that the change in programming may affect, but postpone full testing
3.Set a deadline for all change records to be completed retrospectively
4.Review the RFC to ensure it covers all necessary areas
5.Review the change in terms of performance and close the change record

Answer

Option 1: Correct. After the change has been assessed and evaluated, authorization has to be obtained for building and testing the change. In an emergency situation like the one described, this may be done via an ECAB. For minor emergency changes, operational or other authorities may authorize the changes.

Option 2: Correct. Although full testing is preferable, testing just of the daily activities likely to be affected by the change may be appropriate in an emergency situation like the one described. Other tests may then be conducted only after the change has been implemented.

Option 3: Correct. All changes must be fully documented, but in the case of emergency changes, this may be done retroactively.

Option 4: Incorrect. Reviewing the RFC is the same in both normal and emergency change lifecycles.

Option 5: Incorrect. Reviewing the change performance and closing the record is the same in both normal and emergency change lifecycles.

Correct answer(s):

1. Convene an Emergency Change Advisory Board (ECAB) to authorize the change
2. Run testing for day-to-day activities that the change in programming may affect, but postpone full testing
3. Set a deadline for all change records to be completed retrospectively



Question

An error in the mathematical formulas in an organization's payroll system has been discovered, resulting in the system not calculating tax deductions properly. An immediate modification to the formulas is necessary.

What normal change lifecycle steps may be altered to accommodate this emergency?

Options:
1.Try another iteration if the change doesn't solve the problem, ensuring that ineffective changes are swiftly backed out
2.Convene a CAB to assess the RFC and to authorize testing and deployment
3.Create temporary records of the change and complete these records retrospectively
4.Test the most crucial aspects of the change only before deploying it live
5.Submit a formal RFC evaluation

Answer

Option 1: Correct. This change in the review process may occur in some emergency situations, when it's important to resolve the situations quickly.

Option 2: Incorrect. This step is the same as that in a normal change lifecycle. In this scenario, an emergency CAB (ECAB) – or another authorization process – may be used to ensure that the proposed change is authorized as rapidly as possible.

Option 3: Correct. It may not be possible to update all change records at the time when urgent actions are being completed. An agreed time for completion of documentation updates should be determined when the change is first authorized.

Option 4: Correct. When only limited testing is possible, testing should be focused on aspects of the service that will be used immediately and on elements of the change likely to cause the most short-term inconvenience.

Option 5: Incorrect. Submitting a formal RFC evaluation is the same for both normal and emergency changes.

Correct answer(s):

1. Try another iteration if the change doesn't solve the problem, ensuring that ineffective changes are swiftly backed out
3. Create temporary records of the change and complete these records retrospectively
4. Test the most crucial aspects of the change only before deploying it live

Changes have been classified based on their type, the sequence of steps in the normal change lifecycle has been identified, and differences between normal and emergency Change Management have been recognized.

Back to top
 

Change Evaluation 
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•identify key challenges of change evaluation
 
1. Change evaluation objectives

The purpose of the change evaluation process is to provide a consistent and standardized means of determining the performance – or value – of a proposed IT service change, to facilitate a decision about whether to authorize the change.

It involves identifying and assessing the likely impacts of a proposed change on business outcomes, and on existing and proposed services and IT infrastructure.

It also involves identifying associated risks and issues.

The objectives of change evaluation are to
set stakeholder expectationsOne of the objectives of change evaluation is to ensure that stakeholders have realistic expectations of IT service changes. It does this by providing information about all the likely effects of the changes and associated risks.
evaluate the effects of a proposed change, andA goal of change evaluation is to identify and assess any potential effects of a proposed service change, including both its intended and unintended effects, on the organization's business, customers, and users. The extent to which potential unintended effects are evaluated will depend on what's reasonably practical given capacity, resource, and organizational constraints.
provide high-quality outputsChange evaluation aims to provide reliable, accurate, and complete information about the value of proposed changes and their associated risks. This information then informs decisions about whether or not to authorize the changes.

Every change must be authorized by a suitable change authority at various points in its lifecycle – and change evaluation supports decisions at each of these points.

For example, the results of evaluation may guide decisions about whether to authorize building and testing of an IT service change, and about whether to authorize deployment of the new or altered service to the live environment.

Each organization needs to decide which changes should be subject to formal change evaluation and which can be evaluated more simply as part of the Change Management process.

This decision is normally documented in the change model used to manage each type of change.

For the change evaluation process to be effective, it should involve assessing a proposed change objectively. It should also include consistent reporting methods.

The evaluation team should provide an evaluation report, or interim evaluation report, to Change Management to facilitate decision-making at each point where authorization is required.



Question

What are the objectives of change evaluation?

Options:
1.Ensure that stakeholders have realistic expectations of proposed changes
2.Evaluate both the intended and unintended effects of a proposed IT service change
3.Provide high-quality outputs to support decisions about authorizing service changes
4.Minimize the severity of impacts and disruptions caused by service changes
5.Establish and maintain an accurate Configuration Management System (CMS)

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Change evaluation aims to ensure that stakeholders have realistic expectations of proposed service changes, based on objective information about the likely effects of the changes.

Option 2: Correct. Change evaluation involves assessing the intended effects of a service change, as well as the unintended effects it may have and the associated risks. In this way, it helps determine the value of proceeding with a proposed change.

Option 3: Correct. The aim of change evaluation is to ensure that an appropriate decision can be made about whether or not to authorize a proposed service change. To do this, it has to provide good-quality information in the form of evaluation reports.

Option 4: Incorrect. Although this is an overall objective of Change Management, it's not specific to change evaluation. Change evaluation involves gathering and assessing objective data regarding a proposed change, to enable decision makers to determine whether the change should be authorized.

Option 5: Incorrect. This is an objective of the Asset and Configuration Management processes in the Service Transition stage. Change evaluation doesn't involve using a CMS. It involves gathering and assessing information about proposed changes, to facilitate decisions about whether to authorize those changes or not.

Correct answer(s):

1. Ensure that stakeholders have realistic expectations of proposed changes
2. Evaluate both the intended and unintended effects of a proposed IT service change
3. Provide high-quality outputs to support decisions about authorizing service changes

2. Benefits and challenges

Change evaluation is, by nature, concerned with value. Effective change evaluation establishes how and whether a proposed service change will be of value to the organization, given the required resources, the likely effects of the change, and any potential or real associated risks.

In turn, it helps ensure a focus on value in Change Management – with decisions to authorize changes based on what value they'll contribute.

In addition, the results of change evaluation can feed into and support Continual Service Improvement (CSI). For example, weaknesses associated with proposed service changes can be addressed and resolved, informing future improvements in service offerings and delivery.

However, the change evaluation process is subject to several challenges. These include
developing and using appropriate evaluation measuresFor evaluation measures to be truly meaningful, you should develop standard performance measures and measurement methods across projects and suppliers. Developing and controlling these measures and methods can be challenging. 

Also, it can be difficult to measure in ways that demonstrate less variation in predictions during and after transition.understanding stakeholders' perspectivesWhen evaluations change, it can be difficult to understanding the different stakeholder perspectives that underpin effective Risk Management. This understanding however, is key for the change evaluation activities.balancing risks, andThe balance between avoiding and taking risks affects the overall strategy of an organization and the success of its IT service delivery. However, understanding, and being able to assess, the balance between managing risk and taking risks is a challenge. 

Change evaluators need to take a pragmatic and measured approach to risk by building a thorough understanding of risks that have impacted, or may impact, the successful transition of services and releases.communicating risksChange evaluation staff are expected to communicate the organization's attitude to risk and approach to Risk Management effectively during risk evaluation. They are also expected to encouraging a Risk Management culture where people share information.
Factors that can prevent change evaluation from being effective include
• a lack of clear criteria for when change evaluation should be used 
• unrealistic expectations of the time required for change evaluation 
• change evaluation personnel with insufficient experience or organizational authority to influence change authorities, and 
• projects and suppliers estimating delivery dates inaccurately and causing delays in change evaluation activities 



Question

What challenges are associated with the change evaluation process?

Options:
1.Identifying suitable evaluation measures
2.Noting and understanding how different stakeholders view risks associated with a proposed change 
3.Building a thorough understanding of risks that have impacted successful Service Transition
4.Encouraging a Risk Management culture in which people share information about risks
5.Finding ways that change contributes to overall service improvements
6.Minimizing risk-taking behavior and prescribing a risk avoidant approach to Change Management

Answer

Option 1: Correct. A key challenge in change evaluation is developing standard performance measures and measurement methods across projects and suppliers. Additionally, measuring and demonstrating less variation in predictions during and after transition is tricky.

Option 2: Correct. A key challenge in change evaluation is understanding the different stakeholder perspectives that underpin effective Risk Management for the change evaluation activities.

Option 3: Correct. Building a thorough understanding of risks that have impacted or may impact successful Service Transition and releases is a key challenge of change evaluation. Teams need to balance risk avoidance and risk taking, and be as pragmatic as possible.

Option 4: Correct. Encouraging a Risk Management culture in which people share information is a challenge of change evaluation. Teams need to communicate the organization's attitude to risk and encourage others to share information to gain as complete a picture as possible of proposed changes.

Option 5: Incorrect. This is an overall objective of Change Management and is not a specific challenge to change evaluation.

Option 6: Incorrect. There needs to be a balance between risk taking and risk avoidance in change evaluation.

Correct answer(s):

1. Identifying suitable evaluation measures
2. Noting and understanding how different stakeholders view risks associated with a proposed change 
3. Building a thorough understanding of risks that have impacted successful Service Transition
4. Encouraging a Risk Management culture in which people share information about risks

3. Summary

The change evaluation process aims to provide a consistent, standardized method for assessing the value of a proposed service change and associated risks. It involves gathering and assessing objective data about a proposed change.

Change evaluation helps ensure that decisions about whether to authorize proposed changes are based on the real value of those changes to the organization, its users, and its customers. Challenges associated with this process include standardizing evaluation measures and methods, balancing risks, understanding stakeholder perspectives, and communicating risks effectively within an organization.

Back to top
 

© 2017 Skillsoft Ireland Limited
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
 
Print 

Course Transcript
 

ITIL® 2011 Edition Foundation: Introduction to Service Operation
  

Service Operation Scope and Functions

1. The Scope and Responsibilities of Service Operation 

2. The Role of Communication in Service Operation

3. Service Desk Roles and Objectives

4. Other Service Operation Functions

5. Using Service Operation Functions
   

The Scope and Responsibilities of Service Operation 
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•describe the scope of Service Operation
•recognize the responsibilities of Service Operation
 
1. Scope

Service Operation is the fourth stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle.



Graphic

The ITIL® Service Lifecycle diagram is represented in a circle in which the Service Strategy stage displays at its center. It is surrounded by the Service Design, Service Transition, and Service Operation stages. The Continual Service Improvement stage forms its border.

The purpose of the Service Operation stage is to coordinate and carry out the activities and processes required to deliver and manage services at agreed levels to business users and customers. So the Service Operation stage ensures that services are delivered as promised.

The Service Operation stage is also responsible for ensuring that the necessary technology is managed properly to support this service delivery.

Service Operation is a critical stage in the Service Lifecycle because it ensures that daily operations function smoothly. The organization's strategic objectives are ultimately achieved during the Service Operation stage.

Daily operations need to run smoothly and effectively to ensure that business users can achieve their goals, and that customers receive the levels of service they expect from the organization.

When operations run smoothly, you can gather the baseline data needed to plan improvements, or to find inspiration for a better design for services.

People working within Service Operation processes need to approach work with a broad view of the entire operation and delivery mechanisms. If they approach work with only their specific process or tasks in mind they may not be in a good position to detect any threats or failures in overall service quality.

This end-to-end view may include suppliers, customers, and after-sales care. So when needed, processes and tools used to manage cross-organizational workflows should be deployed.

The area of Service Operation is broad – it's scope encompasses all processes, functions, and tools needed to deliver and support services. This scope includes
servicesServices include any activity or task that forms part of a service and that is carried out by your organization, an external supplier, or the user or customer of the service.
Service Management processesDuring the Service Operation stage, many Service Management processes are implemented and managed on an ongoing basis. Even though some of the processes originate in other stages of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle, they culminate in the Service Operation stage. An example of this is Change Management, which originates at the Service Transition stage, but the core activities of this process happen during Service Operation.

Some processes that aren't within the scope of Service Operation include the actual design process and Strategy Management for IT services. Long-term process activities, or planning or improvement activities for long-term goals, tend to use information from the Service Operation stage, but don't form part of its scope.technology, andManaging the technology used to deliver IT services is integral to Service Operation. So a large portion of the work performed during the Service Operation stage includes managing the IT infrastructure that ensures service delivery.peopleIt is people who demand services and products, and it is people who manage the processes that deliver them. So during the Service Operation stage, you need to be aware of all people involved and work toward creating acceptable quality service at acceptable cost.
To successfully fulfill the scope of Service Operation responsibilities, you need to consider and strive toward these goals:
• deliver IT services and support of these services effectively and efficiently 
• ensure IT services are provided only to those authorized to receive the service, and 
• reduce the impact of service outages in daily operations 



Question

What areas fall within the scope of Service Operation?

Options:
1.Ensuring access permissions are current for access to a sales database
2.Managing hardware and software requirements
3.Managing server and printer hardware
4.Implementing Strategy Management for IT services
5.Designing the IT service for a new branch of the company
6.Considering the people who plan, implement, and deliver services

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Any activity that forms part of a service is included in day-to-day operations. So ensuring access to a sales database is within the scope of the Service Operation stage.

Option 2: Correct. Managing and implementing many Service Management processes is within the scope of Service Operation.

Option 3: Correct. Managing technology that enables the delivery of a service is an integral part of Service Operation.

Option 4: Incorrect. Some processes that are focused on more long-term planning, such as Strategy Management for IT services, aren't included within the scope of Service Operation. However, the Service Operation stage does provide useful input to these processes.

Option 5: Incorrect. The actual design process for Service Management falls into the Service Design stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle, not the Service Operation stage.

Option 6: Correct. To manage Service Operation, you need to be aware of all people involved and work toward creating acceptable quality service at acceptable cost.

Correct answer(s):

1. Ensuring access permissions are current for access to a sales database
2. Managing hardware and software requirements
3. Managing server and printer hardware
6. Considering the people who plan, implement, and deliver services

2. Responsibilities

Because Service Operation deals with the business of day-to-day operations, it's easy to get bogged down in detail and lose sight of the bigger picture. To fight this tendency, it's useful to consider Service Operation and your responsibilities within a larger context – that of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle, technology, and the overall business.

As part of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle, the Service Operation stage is responsible for executing and performing processes to optimize the cost and quality of services within the Lifecycle.

Another responsibility is to provide the business with capacity to meet its objectives.

The remaining responsibilities within the Service Operation stage include
the technology used to deliver and support service, andService Operation responsibilities, in terms of technology, include ensuring that components which support IT services function effectively. 

This area of responsibility also includes the implementation of operation control activities that help to manage and deliver IT services.the overall functioning of the business itselfAs part of the overall functioning of the business, the Service Operation stage is responsible for delivering IT services efficiently and within cost parameters. 

These services should meet expectations outlined in Service Level Agreements (SLAs). So there is a responsibility for delivering expected service levels to users and customers. 

Service Operation is also responsible for ensuring user satisfaction with the IT services.
When Service Operation works effectively and achieves a balance between a focus on detail and on the broader context, businesses are able to benefit from their IT investments.

So Service Operation is the stage at which the business receives value for an IT investment, which makes this stage of the Service Lifecycle critical.



Question

Match each responsibility within the Service Operation stage to the category to which it belongs. More than one responsibility may match to a category.

Options:
A.Implementing processes that ensure cost effective, high quality IT services
B.Ensuring components that support IT services function effectively
C.Ensuring cost effective delivery of IT services
D.Delivering the IT services defined in SLAs
E.Implementing operation control activities to deliver IT services
F.Providing the business with capacity to meet its objectives

Targets:
1.Responsibilities as part of the Service Lifecycle
2.Responsibilities as part of technology
3.Responsibilities as part of the overall business


Answer

Implementing processes to ensure the optimal balance between cost and quality, and enabling a business to achieve its strategic goals, are Service Operation responsibilities as part of the Service Lifecycle.

Responsibilities associated with technology include ensuring that components that support services function effectively and operation control activities help to manage and deliver services.

Service Operation responsibilities related to the overall business include delivering services within agreed service levels efficiently and at an acceptable cost.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option F, Option A

Target 2 = Option E, Option B

Target 3 = Option D, Option C

3. Summary

Service Operation is the fourth stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle. The scope of this stage is broad in that it encompasses day-to-day operations that help to oversee and implement processes and activities to ensure IT services are delivered. Services, Service Management processes, technology, and people all fall within the scope of Service Operation.

Responsibilities are both with the daily operations as well as those within the broader contexts of the Service Lifecycle, technology, and the business itself. Meeting responsibilities within these areas ensures tangible benefits for IT investments.

Back to top
 

The Role of Communication in Service Operation
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•identify the best practice principles for effective communication in Service Operation
•identify strategies for facilitating successful meetings
 
1. Effective communication practices

Communication is the process whereby people or groups of people exchange information, verbally or in writing.

In Service Operation, good communication can prevent problems from occurring or mitigate issues that may lead to problems further down the line.

For example, if an unforeseen issue impacts a customer's business, the customer and service provider can consult on the matter and find ways to adjust the service accordingly.

Bad communication can worsen situations by failing to prevent problems from escalating.

For example, if a customer is dissatisfied with certain aspects of a service, failure to communicate with the customer on ways to improve the service can lead to conflict between service partners.

Good communication is necessary at all levels. Service Operation teams, IT teams, users, and both internal and external customers need to communicate regularly and effectively.

There are no hard and fast rules about the role and practice of communication in Service Operation.

However, these are some of the best practices you should keep in mind:
• identify the relevant stakeholders 
• be aware of the types of communication typical in Service Operation 
• express the intended purpose of each communication clearly, and 
• agree on an appropriate mode of communication 

Before carrying out any sort of communication, it is important to identify the relevant stakeholders who need to be involved. All role-players should be aware of when communication is to take place and should be involved in some way.

Relevant stakeholders may include IT process owners and staff involved in Service Operation, process managers for processes executed by Service Operation staff, IT teams and departments, customers, users, and vendor staff involved in Service Operation.

Organizers must be aware of the types of communication typical in Service Operation and try to select the most effective type for the purpose at hand.

Some examples of different types of communication that may be required in Service Operation include
routine operational communicationThrough routine operational communication, stakeholders can summarize events and present new issues, and highlight the need for any follow-up on past issues.communication between shiftsCommunication between shifts may be required to update incoming staff about any incidents or problems that occurred during the previous shift.performance reportingAll team members may play a role in performance reporting. For example, team members may be asked to report on the health of any major systems and to inform other staff of any issues that may affect IT service operations in the near future.communication in projects, andCommunication in projects is needed to ensure that all relevant stakeholders are aware of any problems or incidents that need to be dealt with, and that action plans are devised for attending to outstanding issues.training on new or changed processes and service designsIt's important that relevant stakeholders communicate any necessary information about training on new or changed processes and service designs. This ensures that staff members are available to participate in any relevant training, and prevents training from disrupting operations.
Further examples of different types of communication needed in Service Operation include communication related to
changesIt's important to communicate changes to affected parties. Communications may be scheduled to discuss changes that are expected and potential incidents that may occur as a result, and to devise a plan of action for dealing with the relevant incidents.exceptionsIf there are operational exceptions, they need to be communicated to staff, including any anticipated impact the exceptions may have on operations.emergencies, andIn case of an operational emergency such as a major network failure, staff may need to meet to discuss the problem, find solutions, and settle on a plan of action.strategy, design, and transition to service operation teamsGeneral information on IT strategy, design, and IT services being transitioned to relevant stakeholders in service operation must also be communicated.
When preparing to communicate information, it is important to keep the intended purpose of the communication and any results you expect in mind. You also need to be clear about who the intended audience is.

In addition, the audience should be in agreement with the organizer on the purpose of the communication and any action that is expected as a result.

In addition to meetings, communication may be delivered in many ways including e-mail, social media and microblogging services, instant messaging and web-based chat, pagers, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) utilities, teleconference and virtual meeting utilities, and document-sharing utilities.

Although ITIL® does not specify a particular medium for communication or communication frequency, organizations should determine and document their own communication policies based on their organizational needs and preferences.

It's important that all stakeholders know how and when communication is to take place.

For example, if members of a business unit work off-site and need to maintain contact with each other, it may be more practical to use text messaging rather than e-mail. If this is the case, all stakeholders should know that they need to keep their cellular devices charged and on them at all times.

The type of communication favored by an organization will depend on its needs. For example, an organization with many off-site workers may prefer to use e-mail and teleconferencing for communication.

Organizations with more intricate Service Management processes will favor using communication tools and processes designed to meet their particular needs. For example, it may be protocol to communicate with team members using an Event Management tool that generates alerts and automatically communicates them to team members for action.



Question

What are some of the best practices for effective communication in Service Operation?

Options:
1.Identify all people who should be involved
2.Let all stakeholders know the purpose of each communication
3.Use the most advanced technology to facilitate communication
4.Independently develop an agenda for each meeting
5.Make use of types of communication typical in Service Operation
6.Agree with stakeholders on an appropriate mode of communication

Answer

Option 1: Correct. To prevent any lapses in communication, you need to identify all stakeholders and ensure their involvement.

Option 2: Correct. Stakeholders should be informed of the reason for each communication and the actions that should result. 

Option 3: Incorrect. Although advanced technology can help facilitate communication, it is more important that the technology be suited to the aim of the communication itself and the context in which it is carried out.

Option 4: Incorrect. The call for a meeting and the agenda for it should be developed together with the stakeholders you've identified.

Option 5: Correct. Having an awareness of the various types of communication used in Service Operation can help you focus the aims and content of communications.

Option 6: Correct. Best practices dictate that all stakeholders agree on the most appropriate mode of communication, given the context in which it must occur.

Correct answer(s):

1. Identify all people who should be involved
2. Let all stakeholders know the purpose of each communication
5. Make use of types of communication typical in Service Operation
6. Agree with stakeholders on an appropriate mode of communication

2. Facilitating successful meetings

Meetings, when executed properly, are a very beneficial medium for communication. The purpose of holding a meeting is to exchange information on common issues and objectives with a group. Meetings should always remain focused on a common agenda with the aim of driving action.

These are some of the factors that can help ensure a successful meeting:
• establishing a clear agenda 
• recording issues that are not on the current agenda 
• ensuring that rules for participation are understood 
• keeping minutes, and 
• encouraging appropriate levels of participation 

It is important to establish a clear agenda. A clear agenda can help ensure that the participants stay focused and that the meeting objectives are met.

Suppose changes in industry regulations have an impact on the organization's IT service operation processes. A clear agenda for a meeting to discuss the changes can help participants focus on finding creative solutions, instead of getting into detailed discussions about what drove the regulatory changes.

It's important to record new issues that are not on the current agenda so that details of these issues can be addressed at a later time. In addition, making notes of issues that aren't immediately relevant can help validate the concerns of the participants who raised the issues, while keeping the current agenda on track.

The person facilitating a meeting should ensure that rules for participation are understood by all participants. Most organizations have a set of rules regarding meeting participation. Such rules can help ensure that meetings run smoothly.

For example, if everyone knows that only issues tabled on the agenda will be up for discussion, they can ensure that topics they want to discuss are placed on the agenda. If they fail to do this, they'll know that their issues can be raised and noted for future address.

It's important to keep minutes for several reasons:
• to remind people about who tasks have been delegated to 
• to track the progress of tasks that have been delegated, and 
• to track and follow through on cross-functional decisions and actions 

The facilitator of a meeting should encourage appropriate levels of participation during the meeting. This can help ensure that certain participants do not take over the meeting. Participants can also agree on which topics to entertain or stop during the discussion.

For example, participants can agree to dismiss specific issues that are not relevant to the objective of the meeting. This can help speed up the pace of the meeting.



Question

Identify strategies for facilitating successful meetings.

Options:
1.Establishing a clear agenda
2.Encouraging maximum participation on all issues
3.Keeping minutes for the meetings
4.Ignoring issues that are not directly relevant
5.Ensuring that everyone understands the rules for participation

Answer

Option 1: Correct. A clear, comprehensive agenda can help ensure that participants remain focused on achieving the objectives set for a meeting.

Option 2: Incorrect. Encouraging maximum participation on all issues can be counterproductive. Meetings should be short and goal-oriented.

Option 3: Correct. Minute-taking can ensure that participants remember what issues were agreed upon and help in the tracking of cross-functional actions and tasks that were delegated to others.

Option 4: Incorrect. Although issues that are not directly relevant should not be discussed, it is important to make notes of them in case the issues come up again later on and so that the people who raised the issues know they've been heard.

Option 5: Correct. To ensure that meetings run smoothly, all participants should have access to the organization's rules for meeting participation.

Correct answer(s):

1. Establishing a clear agenda
3. Keeping minutes for the meetings
5. Ensuring that everyone understands the rules for participation

3. Common Service Operation meetings

Face-to-face meetings between stakeholders in Service Operation may be required periodically, but aren't always the best solution.

It's better if relevant information can be shared just as effectively by other means, such as e-mail.

It's also important not to develop a culture in which work takes place or management consults with staff only during meetings.

Face-to-face meetings can be expensive and potentially disruptive. They require people to set time aside from their usual activities and to travel to a meeting place. In addition, venues need to be booked and refreshments may have to be supplied.

So organizers should always weigh the benefits of face-to-face meetings with the costs involved.

The three types of meetings commonly held include
operations meetingsOperations meetings are usually held at the beginning of each day or week. They are usually attended by the managers of various IT units, chaired by the IT operations manager or senior operations manager, and include at least one representative from the service desk.group meetings, andGroup meetings are similar to operations meetings except that they include only the members of a particular IT department, group, or team.customer meetingsIn addition to the regular service level review meetings, customer meetings between management and customers are occasionally held to review service delivery and expectations, and to address any service-related issues.
The aim of an operations meeting is to highlight relevant IT service operation issues, such as changes to schedules, unforeseen events, and planned maintenance. 

Participants can raise new issues and note opportunities to improve services or processes, which may also be communicated to the CSI team. 

Operations meetings also enable synchronization between various units.

During group meetings, IT staff may be briefed on any relevant information for their team.

Team members discuss their progress on current assignments, incomplete work, and potential problems or concerns. They can also provide estimates on completion times and request additional resources if necessary.

Issues such as team members' vacation schedules and availability for roster duties are also dealt with in these meetings.

Customer meetings may occasionally be held to follow up on serious incidents or to provide a customer forum.

Customer meetings that follow up on serious incidents can be used to repair relationships with customers, to gather information that IT service providers can use to prevent the problem from recurring, and to agree on ways to prevent the incident from recurring in the future.

A customer forum provides an environment in which areas of concern for both the customer and the organization can be discussed. In this type of meeting, new ideas for service improvement may also be put forward.



Question

Match each type of Service Operation meeting to its characteristics.

Options:
A.Operations meeting
B.Group meeting
C.Customer meeting

Targets:
1.Managers from various departments meet to discuss operational issues
2.Managers meet with their team to pass on relevant information from higher-level meetings and to discuss team progress
3.IT service organization representatives meet with clients to repair damaged relationships or improve existing relationships

Answer

In an operations meeting, managers from various IT units meet to discuss operational issues such as schedule changes, unplanned events, and planned maintenance.

In a group meeting, the manager or supervisor of an IT team or department passes on relevant information from the operations meeting. Staff can provide feedback on work-related issues so the manager can track progress within the group.

In the case of serious problems, customer meetings are held to repair damaged customer relationships. Customer meetings may also be used to help improve on services and to prevent recurrences of problems.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

4. Summary

For effective communication during the Service Operation stage, you need to involve all relevant stakeholders, determine and use the most appropriate type of communication, ensure that everyone understands the purpose of the communication, and agree on a medium by which to communicate with participants.

To ensure that meetings run smoothly, you can define a clear agenda, ensure that everyone understands the rules of participation, make notes of issues that are not directly relevant to the problem at hand, take minutes, and encourage appropriate levels of participation.

The types of meetings commonly held in Service Operation include operations meetings, group meetings, and customer meetings.

Back to top
 

Service Desk Roles and Objectives
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•determine which service desk structures to use in given examples
 
1. Service Operation functions

A function comprises the measures and the people that carry out a defined process or activity. This may be represented by a single organizational unit or a diverse group of teams and departments.

There are four main Service Operation functions, which have the overall purpose of managing a "steady state" operational IT environment.



Graphic

The first Service Operation function is the service desk. The second function is Technical Management, which incorporates servers, desktops, networks, and middleware. IT Operations Management incorporates some of Technical Management and Application Management, but its main focus is IT operations control and Facility Management. Application Management incorporates finance, HR, and business applications.
Service deskThe service desk is the primary point of contact for users when there is a service disruption, for service requests, or even for some categories of Requests for Change (RFC). 
Technical ManagementTechnical Management provides detailed technical skills and resources needed to support the ongoing operation of the IT Infrastructure – such as servers, networks, and desktops. Technical Management also plays an important role in the design, testing, release, and improvement of IT services. 
IT Operations ManagementIT Operations Management is the function responsible for the daily operational activities needed to manage the IT Infrastructure. It incorporates IT operations control and Facilities Management. IT operations control ensures that routine operational tasks are carried out. Facilities Management refers to the management of the physical IT environment – usually data centers or computer rooms. 
Application ManagementApplication Management is responsible for managing applications throughout their lifecycle. The Application Management function supports and maintains operational applications and also plays an important role in the design, testing, and improvement of applications that form part of IT services. 

The four Service Operation functions ensure that IT systems, software, and facilities operate efficiently and consistently.



Question

Match each Service Operation function to its description.

Options:
A.Service desk
B.Technical Management
C.IT Operations Management
D.Application Management

Targets:
1.Provides a central point of contact for users when there is service disruption
2.Supports the operation of servers, networks, and general IT infrastructure through technical knowledge
3.Ensures that routine operational tasks are carried out and manages the physical IT environment
4.Designing, maintaining, and controlling software applications throughout their lifecycle

Answer

A service desk is the primary point of contact for users when there is a service disruption, for service requests, or even for some categories of RFC.

Technical Management supports the ongoing operation of the IT Infrastructure – such as servers, networks, and desktops.

IT Operations Management incorporates IT operations control, which ensures that routine operational tasks are carried out. It also incorporates Facilities Management, which focuses on the management of the physical IT environment.

Application Management is responsible for managing applications – including Finance, HR, and Business applications – throughout their lifecycle.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

2. Benefits of a service desk

A service desk is a functional unit made up of a dedicated number of staff responsible for dealing with a variety of service events. 

These events are reported via telephone calls or a web interface, or are automatically reported infrastructure events.

The service desk is a vitally important part of an organization's IT department and should be the single point of contact for IT users on a day-to-day basis.

Service desks generally handle all incidents and service requests, and usually make use of specialist software tools to log and manage all such events.

The primary aim of the service desk is to restore service to normal for users as quickly as possible. 

Restoring service to normal for users is meant in the widest possible sense. While this could involve fixing a technical fault, it could equally involve fulfilling a service request or answering a query. 

So the service desk aims to do whatever is needed to return services to normal for users, to improve customer service, and to enhance IT operations.

The benefits of an effective service desk are that it
• improves customer service, through better handling and faster turnaround of customer or user requests 
• increases accessibility through a single point of contact 
• improves infrastructure and control 
• improves the use of IT support resources, through improved teamwork and communication 
• reduces the negative business impact of service disruptions by increasing the productivity of business personnel, and 
• provides an excellent grounding for employees who wish to pursue a career in Service Management 

The benefits of the service desk function make it the most popular tool for handling first-line IT support issues. It provides a highly controllable support function that improves IT resource management and customer or business productivity.



Question

What are some of the benefits of an effective service desk?

Options:
1.It improves customer service
2.It improves the use of IT support resources
3.It increases accessibility
4.It reduces the negative business impact of service disruptions
5.It reduces the need for the documentation of service disruptions and user requests
6.It ensures 24-hour access to IT support staff

Answer

Option 1: Correct. An effective service desk improves customer service by providing better handling and faster turnaround of customer or user requests.

Option 2: Correct. An effective service desk helps optimize the use of IT support resources through improved teamwork and communication.

Option 3: Correct. An effective service desk improves accessibility by providing a single point of contact for users and customers. Users can call a single number for all IT support issues and automated alerts are set to go to a single destination.

Option 4: Correct. Fast turnaround of user requests by an effective service desk enables users to return to full productivity faster, thereby reducing the negative business impact of service disruptions.

Option 5: Incorrect. All calls, requests, and disruptions should be logged by the service desk to assist with determining required metrics and with improving service quality.

Option 6: Incorrect. The structure and organization of service desks vary – not all are designed to support 24-hour access.

Correct answer(s):

1. It improves customer service
2. It improves the use of IT support resources
3. It increases accessibility
4. It reduces the negative business impact of service disruptions

3. Structural factors

There are a range of possible structure and location options for service desks. The optimal solution for a service desk structure and location is dependent on your organization's needs.

Some service desks may also need to be customized with specialist service desk groups.

The two most basic organizational structures for service desks are
local, andA local service desk is located within or close to the user community it serves. This often aids communication and gives the service desk a visible presence. However, a local service desk can be inefficient and expensive to resource, particularly when call volumes are relatively low.

You may need to maintain a local service desk even where call volumes alone do not justify it. This may be due to specialized or high-status user groups; language, cultural, or time zone differences; or the existence of customized or specialized services that require specialist knowledge.centralizedA centralized service desk has staff located in one or more centralized service desk structures. This can be more efficient and cost-effective than using local service desks because fewer staff are needed in order to handle a higher volume of calls. This structure also encourages higher skill levels because staff tend to have to deal with a large number of specific events.

Maintaining some form of local presence, may still be necessary in order to handle physical support requirements, but such staff can be controlled and deployed from the central service desk.
Other organizational structures for service desks make use of technology and business globalization.
Virtual service deskUsing technology such as the Internet and corporate support tools, it is possible to give the impression of a single, centralized service desk when in fact, personnel are located across any number or type of geographical or structural locations. This is the role of a virtual service desk.

Virtual service desks provide the option of home working, secondary support groups, offshoring, or outsourcing – or any combination of these options. However, there needs to be consistency and uniformity in service quality and cultural terms, which can be difficult to achieve with a virtual service desk. 
Follow-the-sun service deskSome global or international organizations may combine two or more of their geographically dispersed service desks to provide a 24-hour follow-the-sun service desk. This provides 24-hour coverage at relatively low cost because no desk has to work more than a single shift.

For example, a service desk in the Asia-Pacific region may handle calls during its standard office hours and, at the end of this period, hand over responsibility for any open incidents to a European-based service desk. 

All service desks need to share common processes, tools, and database information. The issue of culture and language also needs to be addressed for this approach to succeed. 

Some organizations find it beneficial to create specialist service desk groups within the overall service desk structure. Incidents relating to particular IT services are routed directly to the group best equipped to handle them. This enables faster resolution of these incidents, through greater familiarity and specialist training.

You can set up automatic telephone scripts to route users through to the relevant specialist service desk group. For example, "If your call is about the wireless service, please press 1 now; otherwise please hold for a service desk analyst." Or alerts for a particular service type can be routed directly to the associated service group.

The available selections should not be overcomplicated, so specialist service groups should be considered only for a very small number of key services, where call volumes for these services are high.

Regardless of the service desk structure that you select for your organization, you need to ensure that users know who they need to contact and how to contact the appropriate service desk. 

A single telephone number, e-mail address, and web page – or one for each group if separate service desks are chosen – should be provided and well publicized.

Points of contact can be advertised in various ways to ensure that users know what number to call, which web site to go to, or what e-mail address to use. 

You can place contact information on hardware, telephones, notice boards, or corporate gifts such as pens or mugs.

You can use a customized background or desktop that contains the service desk contact details, together with information read from the system that will be needed when calling – such as Internet Protocol (IP) address and operating system (OS) build number.

You can also place contact details prominently on service desk Internet or intranet sites, add them to e-mail correspondence with users, or provide users with calling cards.



Question

What factors do you need to consider when determining the structure and location of the service desk?

Options:
1.Optimal structure or blend of structures to use
2.Specialist groups required
3.Methods used to advertise the service desk to users
4.Skill levels of the support staff

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The structural options available are local, centralized, virtual, and follow-the-sun. Each of these service desk structures comes with its own set of strengths and weaknesses. The structure chosen should be matched to the organization's needs.

Option 2: Correct. When specialist skills are required or where very large numbers of calls related to a specific service are expected, specialist service desk groups can be created to deal with these specific or critical services.

Option 3: Incorrect. The methods used to advertise the service desk to users should be designed around the most suitable structure and location for the service desk.

Option 4: Incorrect. The required skill levels of the support staff is an important consideration. However, it isn't necessarily a consideration in the choice of structure and location for the service desk.

Correct answer(s):

1. Optimal structure or blend of structures to use
2. Specialist groups required

4. Service desk structures

A fashion retailer has five stores across three states. The retailer's databases, intranet server, and web server are all located at a head office in Boston.

The retailer's IT department handles technical and software issues, and is designing a service desk facility.

The fashion retailer decides to blend two service desk organizational structures:
centralized, andInitially, the Service Management team decides that a centralized service desk based at the head office in Boston will be the most cost-effective solution. This strategy works because it costs less than staffing local service desks and helps to consolidate processes and resources.virtualThe Service Management team decides that a single contract person should be available for technical problems at the stores in the other locations.

This staff can be controlled and deployed from the central service desk. A virtual team solution is decided on because contract workers on a small retainer are a cost-effective solution. The store ensures that all contractors are trained in the processes associated with their roles.
Because the Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) software that the store uses is not based on the same platform as its other networking solutions, the retailer decides to form a special service desk group to deal with VoIP queries and requests.

The fashion retailer expands into the Australian market and into Paris. To cater for this expansion, the following additional service desk structures are incorporated:
local, andBecause of language differences, the fashion retailer decides to use local service desk for its Paris branch. It also sets up a local service desk for branches in Australia.follow-the-sunTo reduce the costs of running two local service desks and to improve productivity, the Service Management team decides to use a follow-the-sun approach between its US and Australian service desks. Staff at both service desks use English. Time differences between the head office service desk in Boston and the Australian service desk allow tasks to be handed over so that 24-hour service can be provided without requiring extended shifts for service desk workers.
Similar to the fashion retailer, the service desk solution that your organization chooses should depend on budget, staffing requirements, service requirements, language, and geographical issues.

Question Set



A large financial brokerage firm has three branches in New York. The firm is creating a service desk to provide the first port of call for all its in-house IT requests. It has decided to operate the service desk internally.

Question 1 of 2



Question

The main issues that the service desk will need to deal with are networking issues, administration issues, and desktop issues.

Which service desk structure best suits this firm?

Options:
1.Local service desk
2.Centralized service desk
3.Virtual service desk
4.Follow-the-sun service desk

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. A local service desk structure is not cost-effective in this scenario. There are no specialized or high-status user groups; language, cultural, or time zone differences; or customized or specialized services that require specialist knowledge.

Option 2: Correct. A centralized service desk structure is likely to be the most effective solution for this company. Fewer overall staff will be needed to deal with high volumes of calls, resulting in cost savings. A centralized structure also encourages higher skill levels due to the higher frequency at which staff have to deal with specific events.

Option 3: Incorrect. Although a virtual service desk structure could work, the company has decided to operate the service desk internally so it will not need to cater for offshoring or outsourcing.

Option 4: Incorrect. All branches are in the same time zone, so a follow-the-sun service desk structure is not possible.

Correct answer(s):

2. Centralized service desk

Question 2 of 2



Question

An in-house macro, used by 100 finance staff members who are rated as critical for the business, generates several problems that often require updates to the Java code. Service desk staff are trained in administration and networking, but are unfamiliar with Java and the functionality of the macro.

How should the organization deal with this?

Options:
1.Create a special service desk group to deal with queries related to the macro service
2.Train all service desk staff so that they can deal with queries about the macro service
3.Hire a single Java programmer to handle queries about the macro service

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Because the service is critical, requires a different skill set, and attracts a high volume of calls and requests, a special service desk group should be set up to support the service.

Option 2: Incorrect. Training all service desk staff to handle queries about the macro service would be costly and unlikely to generate sufficient skills quickly enough to handle the problem.

Option 3: Incorrect. A single programmer is unlikely to be able to handle the volume of calls and work that issues associated with the macro service will generate.

Correct answer(s):

1. Create a special service desk group to deal with queries related to the macro service

5. Summary

Service Operation functions include the service desk, Technical Management, IT Operations Management, and Application Management. 

The primary aim of the service desk is to restore normal service to users as quickly as possible. This function is generally accepted as the most efficient means of dealing with first-line requests or enquiries. In addition to this, benefits include improved customer service and better use of IT resources. 

When designing service desks, you need to consider the organizational structure of the service desk and whether special service desk groups are required.

Potential structures for service desks include local, centralized, virtual, and follow-the-sun structures.

Back to top
 

Other Service Operation Functions
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize the dual role of Technical Management
•recognize how IT Operations Management achieves balance between its dual roles
•identify the four roles of Application Management
 
1. Service Operation objectives

In addition to the service desk, Service Operation functions include



Graphic

The first Service Operation function is the service desk. The second function is Technical Management which incorporates servers, desktops, networks, and middleware. IT Operations Management incorporates some of Technical Management and Application Management, but its main focus is IT Operations Control and Facilities Management. Application Management incorporates finance, HR, and business applications.
Technical ManagementThe objectives of Technical Management are to assist in the planning, implementation, and maintenance of a stable technical infrastructure. A well-designed, resilient, and cost-effective technical topology should be in place to support the organization's business processes. 

Technical infrastructure should be maintained through the adequate and timely use of technical skills and techniques to diagnose and resolve any technical failures that do occur.IT Operations Management, andThe objectives of IT Operations Management include maintaining stability in the organization's daily processes and activities, improving service at reduced cost through regular analysis, and using operational skills to diagnose and resolve any IT operations failures that occur.Application ManagementApplication Management aims to support an organization's business processes by identifying functional and manageability requirements for application software. It also aims to assist in the design, deployment, maintenance, and improvement of applications.

It achieves these objectives by ensuring that applications are well designed, resilient, cost-effective, and meet functionality requirements for achieving business outcomes. It is also expected to diagnose and resolve technical failures.
All the Service Operation functions include planning, maintenance, and troubleshooting activities, and are designed to support the overall objectives of the organization.



Question

Match each Service Operation function to the corresponding objective.

Options:
A.Technical Management
B.IT Operations Management
C.Application Management

Targets:
1.Ensuring a well designed, resilient, and cost-effective technical topology
2.Maintaining the stability of the organization's daily processes and activities
3.Identifying functional and manageability requirements for application software

Answer

The objectives of Technical Management include implementing and maintaining a stable technical infrastructure that supports business processes.

The objectives of IT Operations Management include maintaining the stability of the organization's daily processes and activities. They also include improving service at reduced cost through regular analysis, and diagnosing and resolving any IT operations failures that occur.

The objectives of the Application Management function include identifying requirements for application software, and assisting in the design, deployment, maintenance, and improvement of applications.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

2. Technical Management

Technical Management refers to the groups, departments, or teams that provide technical expertise and overall management of the IT Infrastructure.

The Technical Management function focuses on the management of IT hardware. Within this context, it plays a dual role:
it holds technical knowledge and expertise, andThe Technical Management function holds and maintains the technical knowledge and expertise related to managing the organization's IT infrastructure. It is responsible for ensuring that there is sufficient knowledge and expertise available to design, test, manage, and improve IT services.it provides technical resources to support the IT Service Management (ITSM) LifecycleThe Technical Management function is responsible for providing the technical resources to support the ITSM Lifecycle. This role requires that staff are adequately trained. It also requires the appropriate deployment of resources to ensure that the technology used to deliver and support IT services is designed, built, operated, and improved effectively.
The requirements for the dual roles of Technical Management are identified within the Service Strategy, expanded during the Service Design process, validated during Service Transition, and refined through Continual Service Improvement (CSI).

In fulfilling its dual role, Technical Management ensures that an organization can access the appropriate human resources to manage the technology required to support business objectives.

An important aspect of carrying out this role effectively is the ability to balance the skill levels available, the use of resources, and the cost of these resources. 

For example, if you hire a very experienced technician and then use the technician's skills for only a small percentage of the time, you have not used wage resources optimally. In this scenario, it may be better to hire a contractor for the task.

Larger organizations may leverage specialist staff out of central pools for specific technical tasks. This helps to ensure economies of scale and reduces the need to hire contractors for technical work.

This type of resource use is particularly effective for project teams and problem resolution.

Technical Management is expected to provide guidance to IT operations about how best to carry out the ongoing operational management of technology.

This role is carried out in the Service Design process, as well as during ongoing communications with IT Operations Management.



Question

Which statements accurately describe the roles of Technical Management?

Options:
1.It ensures that there is sufficient knowledge and expertise available to support IT services
2.It ensures that appropriate technology resources are deployed to support IT services
3.It provides technical training to the entire Service Management team
4.It ensures that backup and restore tasks are carried out optimally for the IT Operations Management function

Answer

Option 1: Correct. One of the roles of Technical Management is to hold and maintain the technical knowledge needed to design, test, manage, and improve IT services.

Option 2: Correct. One role of Technical Management is to manage technical resources, ensuring that they are trained and deployed to design, build, operate, and improve IT services effectively.

Option 3: Incorrect. Technical Management is expected to provide guidance to IT operations about how best to carry out the ongoing operational management of technology, but it isn't expected to train all IT staff.

Option 4: Incorrect. Backup and restore tasks are part of IT Operations Management. Technical Management is expected to provide technical guidance on this task if needed.

Correct answer(s):

1. It ensures that there is sufficient knowledge and expertise available to support IT services
2. It ensures that appropriate technology resources are deployed to support IT services

3. IT Operations Management

IT Operations Management is the function responsible for the ongoing maintenance and management of organizations' IT infrastructure. It is defined by the daily activities needed to ensure that the infrastructure operates optimally.

In turn, IT Operations Management allows an organization to meet its business objectives through the use of its IT infrastructure.

IT Operations Management has two subfunctions – Operations Control and Facilities Management.

Operations Control oversees the execution and monitoring of the activities and events in the IT infrastructure. This is carried out using an operations bridge or network operations center – the physical location in which the IT network is monitored and managed.

In addition to executing routine tasks in all technical areas, Operations Control performs the following specific tasks:
managing consolesOperations Control performs Console Management, which defines central observation and monitoring capability. This is then used to monitor and control operational activities.job schedulingJob scheduling is the management of routine batch jobs or scripts, which Operations Control performs.performing backups and restoresOperations Control is responsible for performing backups and restores on behalf of all Technical and Application Management teams, as well as departments and individual users.managing print and electronic output, andOperations Control is responsible for collating and distributing all centralized print and electronic output.performing maintenance activitiesOperations Control is responsible for performing maintenance activities on behalf of Technical or Application Management teams or departments.
The Facilities Management subfunction of IT Operations Management involves the management of the physical IT environment. This includes data centers and computer rooms, as well as necessary power and cooling equipment.

In cases where the management of a data center is outsourced, Facilities Management is responsible for managing the outsourcing contract.

Facilities Management is also responsible for coordinating large-scale consolidation projects, such as server consolidation projects.

As with many IT Service Management processes and functions, IT Operations Management plays a dual role:
keeping current activities and processes running optimally, andBy keeping current activities and processes running optimally, IT Operations Management maintains the required status quo as defined during Service Design and Service Transition. 

IT Operations Management is concerned with maintaining the stability of the IT infrastructure and the consistency of IT Services. Operational improvements in this context involve simpler and better ways of doing the same things.adapting to changes in business requirements and demandIn addition to maintaining infrastructure and process status quo, IT Operations Management must also be able to adapt to changes in business requirements and demand. It must ensure that operations and events support a changing environment.
Because the two roles of IT Operations Management are at some level contradictory, IT Operations Management needs to create a balance between maintaining the status quo and changing the status quo to meet new challenges.

To achieve this balance, IT Operations Management needs to generate two sets of metrics – to report to the business on the achievement of service objectives, and to report to IT managers on the efficiency and effectiveness of IT operations.

IT Operations Management must develop a cost strategy aimed at balancing the requirements of different business units with the cost savings available through optimization of existing technology or investment in new technology.

This strategy needs to be founded on a value-based – rather than a cost-based – Return on Investment (ROI) approach to investments.

To achieve balance between its two roles, the IT Operations Management function requires a clear understanding of both technological and service needs. 

To ensure this, it needs to outline procedures and manuals that outline the role of IT operations in both the management of technology and the delivery of IT services.

It also needs to build an understanding of how technology is used to provide IT services and the relative importance and impact of those services on the business.

So all IT operations staff need to understand how the performance of technology affects the delivery of IT services.



Question

How does IT Operations Management achieve balance between its dual roles?

Options:
1.It creates business metrics on service objective achievements and on the efficiency of IT operations
2.It develops a cost strategy that balances business requirements against technology investments
3.It creates a value-based ROI strategy for investments
4.It provides procedures outlining its role in the management of technology and the delivery of IT services
5.It builds understanding of how technology provides IT services and the impact of these services on the business
6.It relies on Technical Management to set its priorities

Answer

Option 1: Correct. IT Operations Management needs to generate two sets of metrics – one tracing the achievement of service objectives and the other tracing the efficiency and effectiveness of IT operations.

Option 2: Correct. IT Operations Management needs to develop a cost strategy that balances different business units' requirements with the cost savings available through optimization of existing technology or investment in new technology. 

Option 3: Correct. IT Operations Management's investment strategy should identify value-based rather than cost-based ROI.

Option 4: Correct. All IT Operations Management tasks, procedures, and manuals need to clarify both of its roles – the delivery of IT services and the management of technology.

Option 5: Correct. By linking technology to the services that are delivered and by prioritizing services according to their impact on the business, IT Operations Management is better able to assign value and priorities.

Option 6: Incorrect. Although Technical Management provides guidance to IT operations about how best to carry out the ongoing operational management of technology, IT Operations Management sets its own priorities.

Correct answer(s):

1. It creates business metrics on service objective achievements and on the efficiency of IT operations
2. It develops a cost strategy that balances business requirements against technology investments
3. It creates a value-based ROI strategy for investments
4. It provides procedures outlining its role in the management of technology and the delivery of IT services
5. It builds understanding of how technology provides IT services and the impact of these services on the business

4. Application Management

Application Management plays a role in managing all applications, whether purchased or developed in-house.

It is also responsible for informing decisions about whether to buy or build needed applications.

The dual role that Application Management plays is to provide
technical knowledge and expertise, andApplication Management is responsible for holding and controlling technical knowledge and expertise related to managing applications. In this role, it collaborates with Technical Management to ensure that there is sufficient knowledge to design, test, manage, and improve IT services optimally.resources needed to support the ITSM LifecycleApplication Management is responsible for providing the needed application resources to support the ITSM Lifecycle. In this role, it ensures that application staff are trained and that sufficient resources are deployed throughout the ITSM Lifecycle.
Application Management's two roles help to ensure a balance between skill levels and the cost of application resources, in support of the organization's business objectives.

In addition to its two high-level roles, Application Management performs the following specific roles:
providing guidance to IT service operation, andApplication Management provides guidance to IT service operation about how to manage applications effectively. This role begins during the Service Design process, but continues in an ongoing way as IT Operations Management attempts to maintain stability and optimum performance.integrating the Application Management Lifecycle with each stage of the ITSMApplications combine technology and functionality, and each stage of the Application Management Lifecycle has a specific set of objectives, activities, deliverables, and teams. So a specific focus is required to integrate the Application Management Lifecycle with each stage of the ITSM so that their outputs match to the objectives of the Service Management Lifecycle.


Supplement

Selecting the link title opens the resource in a new browser window.

Job Aid

In the past, application management and application development were distinct units. With the changing markets and consumer needs, these two functions need to be more integrated. Access the job aid Application development versus application management for more information.



Question

Identify the four roles of Application Management.

Options:
1.It provides technical knowledge and expertise related to managing applications
2.It provides application resources required throughout the ITSM Lifecycle
3.It provides guidance to IT Operations Management on application management
4.It integrates the Application Management Lifecycle into the ITSM Lifecycle
5.It provides guidance to Technical Management on how to manage IT facilities
6.It generates metrics on service delivery and IT operational effectiveness

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Application Management is responsible for holding and controlling technical knowledge and expertise related to managing applications.

Option 2: Correct. Application Management is responsible for providing the needed application resources to support the ITSM Lifecycle. In this role, it ensures that application staff are trained and that sufficient resources are deployed throughout the ITSM Lifecycle.

Option 3: Correct. Application Management provides guidance to IT Operations about how to manage applications effectively. This role begins during the Service Design process, but continues in an ongoing capacity.

Option 4: Correct. Application Management needs to map and integrate each stage of the Application Management Lifecycle with each stage of the ITSM Lifecycle so that their outputs match the objectives of the Service Management Lifecycle.

Option 5: Incorrect. In fact, Technical Management provides guidance to IT Operations Management on the management of IT facilities.

Option 6: Incorrect. IT Operations Management – rather than Application Management – reports on service delivery and IT operational effectiveness.

Correct answer(s):

1. It provides technical knowledge and expertise related to managing applications
2. It provides application resources required throughout the ITSM Lifecycle
3. It provides guidance to IT Operations Management on application management
4. It integrates the Application Management Lifecycle into the ITSM Lifecycle

5. Summary

Technical Management, IT Operations Management, and Application Management objectives include planning, maintenance, and troubleshooting activities within each respective field.

Technical Management fulfills a dual role as custodian of technical information and expertise and as the supplier of the required technical resources. It also provides guidance to IT Operations Management about the ongoing maintenance of the IT infrastructure.

IT Operations Management has two subfunctions – Operations Control and Facilities Management. Its dual role requires that it creates a balance between maintaining the status quo and changing the status quo to meet new challenges.

Application Management's main roles are as custodian of technical application information and expertise and as the supplier of the required application resources. Its two additional roles are providing guidance to IT operations on managing applications, and integrating the Application Management Lifecycle into the IT Service Management (ITSM) Lifecycle.

Back to top
 

Using Service Operation Functions
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize the features of Service Operation functions and how to select a service desk structure and how to staff it appropriately in a given example
 
1. Exercise overview

In this exercise, you're required to recognize the roles and objectives of Service Operation functions.

This involves the following tasks:
•identifying the roles and objectives of Service Operation functions, and
•recognizing how to select a service desk structure and how to staff it appropriately in a given scenario

2. Recognizing service operations

There are four main Service Operation functions that interact with one another to ensure optimal service operation.



Question

Match each Service Operation function with its description.

Options:
A.Service desk
B.Technical Management
C.IT Operations Management
D.Application Management

Targets:
1.Providing a central point of contact for users when there is service disruption
2.Supporting the ongoing operation of the technical infrastructure through technical knowledge
3.Ensuring that routine tasks are carried out and managing the physical IT environment
4.Managing the design, maintenance, and control of software applications throughout their lifecycle

Answer

A service desk is the primary point of contact for users when there is a service disruption, for service requests, and for some categories of Requests for Change (RFC). 

Technical Management supports the ongoing operation of the IT Infrastructure – including elements such as servers, networks, and desktops.

IT Operations Management focuses on managing the physical IT environment and ensuring that all tasks needed to maintain it are implemented.

Application Management is responsible for designing and managing applications – including finance, HR, and business applications – throughout their lifecycle.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D



Question

One of the Service Operation functions is responsible for supporting an organization's business processes by identifying functional and manageability requirements for software.

Which function fulfills this role?

Options:
1.Service desk
2.Technical Management
3.IT Operations Management
4.Application Management

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. The role of the service desk is to restore normal service to users as quickly as possible.

Option 2: Incorrect. The role of Technical Management is to assist in the planning, implementation, and maintenance of a stable technical infrastructure.

Option 3: Incorrect. The role of IT Operations Management is maintaining stability in the organization's daily processes and activities, as well as improving services at reduced cost through regular analysis.

Option 4: Correct. Application Management's roles include identifying functional and manageability requirements for software, providing technical knowledge and expertise, providing application resources, and integrating the Application Management Lifecycle with that of IT Service Management (ITSM).

Correct answer(s):

4. Application Management



Question

What are the subfunctions within IT Operations Management?

Options:
1.IT Operations Control
2.Facilities Management
3.Lifecycle Integration
4.Security Management

Answer

Option 1: Correct. IT Operations Control is a subfunction of IT Operations Management. It ensures that routine operational tasks are carried out.

Option 2: Correct. Facilities Management is a subfunction of IT Operations Management. It involves the management of IT facilities such as server rooms and data centers.

Option 3: Incorrect. IT Operations Management works to ensure that daily IT tasks and procedures are carried out effectively – it does not attempt to integrate various Service Management lifecycles.

Option 4: Incorrect. Managing security tasks is the broad responsibility of IT Operations Control, rather than one of its subfunctions.

Correct answer(s):

1. IT Operations Control
2. Facilities Management

3. Setting up a service desk

The service desk function is the users' primary point of contact. Its aim is to resolve service issues as quickly and effectively as possible to ensure that users or customers are able to continue their work in meeting business goals.



Question

Your IT organization has two branches – one in New York and the other in Thailand. The organization is designing a service desk structure for its branches. It needs to ensure that service desk staff are available during working hours to support customers who use their IT services.

Based on this scenario, what service desk structure should the organization use?

Options:
1.Local service desk
2.Centralized service desk
3.Virtual service desk
4.Follow-the-sun service desk

Answer

Option 1: Correct. There should be a local service desk in Thailand and another in New York to cater to customers with different languages and cultures, and in different time zones. There is no need at this point to keep the service desk operating after office hours in each location.

Option 2: Incorrect. A centralized service desk is not appropriate in this situation because the staff need to cater for customers with two different cultures and languages and to work in two different time zones.

Option 3: Incorrect. Although two virtual service desks – one in Thailand and the other in New York – may work, it is not the best solution. Given that the service desk support is needed only during office hours, local service desks will encourage teamwork and ensure that resources are nearby relevant users.

Option 4: Incorrect. The service desks in both locations need to be available only during office hours. A follow-the-sun structure is needed only if service desk support must be provided outside the normal working hours in particular locations.

Correct answer(s):

1. Local service desk

The roles and objectives of Service Operation functions and the ways to select a service desk structure and staff it appropriately were identified.

Back to top
 

© 2017 Skillsoft Ireland Limited
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
 
Print 

Course Transcript
 

ITIL® 2011 Edition Foundation: Service Operation Processes
  

Incident Management 

1. The Scope and Principles of Incident Management

2. The Incident Management Process

3. Managing Incidents

4. Incident Management Interfaces

Problem, Event, Request, and Access Management

1. The Scope and Principles of Problem Management

2. The Problem Management Process

3. Managing Problems

4. Problem Management Interfaces

5. Event, Request, and Access Management
   

The Scope and Principles of Incident Management
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•identify the scope of Incident Management
•describe the basic principles of Incident Management
 
1. Incident Management scope

In the ITIL® Service Lifecycle, the Service Operation stage includes five processes. One of these is Incident Management.



Graphic

The ITIL® Service Lifecycle contains the Service Strategy, Service, Design, Service Transition, Service Operation, and Continual Service Improvement stages. The five processes of the Service Operation stage are Availability Management, Capacity Management, Financial Management, Problem Management, and Incident Management.

In ITIL® terminology, an incident is defined as an unplanned interruption in, or reduction of, the quality of an IT service.

An incident can also include a Configuration Item (CI) failure, if service is interrupted.

Incident Management is the process for managing the lifecycles of all incidents.

You may be alerted to incidents in different ways:
• through reports from technical staff 
• as a result of using event monitoring tools 
• as a result of users' communication with service desk staff, or 
• through reports from suppliers or business partners 

Efficient Incident Management has clear
purpose, andThe purpose of Incident Management is to ensure that IT services are provided at the levels agreed to in a Service Level Agreement (SLA). The focus of Incident Management is on maintaining or restoring service in the event of an incident, and on minimizing the negative effects of any interruptions on customers, users, and business operations.objectivesThe objectives of Incident Management are to ensure standardization in incident response, reporting, analysis, and documentation. It should increase visibility and communication of incidents to business and IT support staff. It should also focus on a positive portrayal of IT services in a business context through efficient incident response and communication, maintaining user satisfaction through good quality IT services, and aligning all Incident Management activities with organizational goals and priorities.
Service interruptions are often communicated directly by users, either through the service desk or Incident Management reporting or tracking tools.

An organization's Incident Management policy should specify how users can report incidents.

It should also specify how technical staff should report, log, and respond to incidents.

It's important to distinguish between reported incidents and regular service requests. Service requests are logged like incidents, but rarely cause any kind of service interruption.

For example, a user may contact an IT service desk for a password reset request or with an account change request. These are examples of a service request rather than an incident because, although the event inconveniences the user, it doesn't cause a service interruption nor does it impact other users.

An example of an incident would be a number of users reporting an inability to connect to the company network. IT service for those users is interrupted, and the service desk must implement steps to resolve the connection issues.



Question

Which examples fall within the scope of Incident Management?

Options:
1.A network user reports a malware infection
2.An office manager requests a higher level of access to a resource on a company's local area network
3.A power surge damages a server's power supply and interrupts network access
4.An employee forgets a password and calls the service desk to reset it
5.A misconfigured network router is discovered and logged by a network administrator

Answer

Option 1: Correct. A malware infection may cause an interruption or degradation of IT service, and so constitutes an incident. It should be handled through an established Incident Management process.

Option 2: Incorrect. This is an example of a service request rather than an incident. Although it may be communicated via an IT service or help desk, it doesn't relate to a service interruption.

Option 3: Correct. Any event that results in an interruption to normal services constitutes an incident and should be dealt with through proper Incident Management.

Option 4: Incorrect. Forgetting a password might inconvenience an employee, but this doesn't result in a wider interruption of service and so doesn't constitute an incident.

Option 5: Correct. A misconfigured network router may cause an interruption to IT service and so constitutes an incident. It should therefore be handled through proper Incident Management.

Correct answer(s):

1. A network user reports a malware infection
3. A power surge damages a server's power supply and interrupts network access
5. A misconfigured network router is discovered and logged by a network administrator

2. Incident Management principles

Each organization's process for managing incidents may differ depending on the organization's needs and circumstances. However, it's important to apply certain general principles for Incident Management to be effective.

These principles include
setting timescales for incident responseIncident Management should set reasonable timescales and targets for handling incidents. These are typically specified in SLAs, and should reflect targets set in the operational level agreements (OLAs) and underpinning contracts (UCs).creating incident modelsMany types of incidents tend to recur, so it's generally useful to define incident models and apply them to relevant incidents when they occur.planning special responses to major incidentsThere should be a specific model or set of steps for dealing with major incidents. An organization may define what constitutes a major incident, although typically it's any incident that interrupts critical services and takes considerable time to repair.tracking incident status, andIncident status tracking follows each incident through the stages of its lifecycle using status codes. This maintains efficiency in handling and reporting processes.dividing the incident lifecycle into clear stagesIt's useful to split the lifecycle of each incident into different stages, including detection, diagnosis, repair, recovery, and restoration. This can result in better understanding and handling of an incident.
An SLA may establish a timescale for completing each stage of the Incident Management process.

Alternatively, an automated process may be used to establish appropriate timescales for incident response. This can also help determine the severity of an incident, and whether it has escalated in severity since first being detected.

All IT employees and support staff should be aware of the agreed timescales and respond accordingly when dealing with incidents. For example, they should know which types of incidents to prioritize.

An incident model defines the steps that should be taken to deal with any incident that matches the model.

This helps ensure that standard incidents are handled in a standardized way, and within predefined timescales.

An incident model may be useful even for managing incidents that require specialized handling. For example, it may outline steps for identifying the nature of the incidents and for redirecting those that require special handling to the appropriate people or departments.

Each incident model should include specific information:
• the required steps for handling an incident of the relevant type 
• the order of the required steps, including any extra tasks 
• the designated employees or units responsible for each step 
• any precautions – such as making backups or implementing other safety measures – that should be taken before the specified steps are implemented 
• timescales and thresholds for completion of the steps 
• who to contact if an incident requires escalation, and 
• any steps required to collect and secure evidence for use if legal action is taken 



Question

What information should an incident model include?

Options:
1.A list of steps for managing incidents
2.A list of precautions to take before the Incident Management team starts dealing with the incident
3.Information about the underlying causes of the relevant incidents
4.A status update document sent to the user or person who initially communicated the incident
5.The contact details of the person or persons to be notified if the incident worsens or changes

Answer

Option 1: Correct. An incident model should detail the steps for dealing with a specified type of incident, as well as the order of those steps.

Option 2: Correct. An incident model should specify all precautions that need to be taken before the steps for responding to an incident are initiated.

Option 3: Incorrect. An incident model may group various incidents based on their symptoms, but the causes of these incidents could be different.

Option 4: Incorrect. An incident model is defined before incidents actually occur to specify how those incidents should be resolved. An update would be sent to a user only after an actual incident occurred and received a response.

Option 5: Correct. An incident model should specify who to contact if an incident of the relevant type escalates.

Correct answer(s):

1. A list of steps for managing incidents
2. A list of precautions to take before the Incident Management team starts dealing with the incident
5. The contact details of the person or persons to be notified if the incident worsens or changes

A plan for responding to a major incident may identify a dedicated team that can provide the time and resources required to implement a quick resolution.

A distinction should be made between the person managing a major incident and the general incident manager.

This ensures that other, less serious incidents aren't neglected, while major incidents receive sufficient attention.

Incident tracking helps ensure that incidents aren't overlooked at any point in their lifecycles, and that those responsible for managing incidents can prioritize resources appropriately.

Some of the common incident status tracking codes include
• open, for recently discovered incidents 
• in progress, for incidents that have been assigned and are currently being dealt with 
• resolved, for incidents that have been resolved but before regular service is resumed, or 
• closed, for once regular service has resumed 



Question

You're currently reviewing your organization's Incident Management process in order to improve its effectiveness.

What principles should you apply?

Options:
1.Establish appropriate timescales for resolving incidents
2.Track the incident status through each stage of the incident's lifecycle
3.Establish a dedicated incident handling team to deal with every incident, regardless of size
4.Create a collection of incident models with predefined incident handling steps for each one
5.Create an analytical model that examines each incident as a whole to better understand it

Answer

Option 1: Correct. You should include a timescale that denotes the recommended period for dealing with each phase of the incident lifecycle in every Incident Management policy. These periods should be aligned with SLAs.

Option 2: Correct. Incident Management processes should include incident status tracking to maximize efficient handling and reporting for each stage. These can includes status codes for each incident lifecycle stage.

Option 3: Incorrect. It's best practice to establish a dedicated team to deal only with major incidents. Regular IT support employees can deal with smaller incidents.

Option 4: Correct. Effective Incident Management relies on the use of incident models, which specify standard ways of responding to common types of incidents.

Option 5: Incorrect. Effective Incident Management examines incidents in detail by viewing the expanded incident lifecycle. This breaks up each incident into sections to be analyzed in order to maximize resolution action effectiveness.

Correct answer(s):

1. Establish appropriate timescales for resolving incidents
2. Track the incident status through each stage of the incident's lifecycle
4. Create a collection of incident models with predefined incident handling steps for each one

3. Summary

Incident Management is one of the processes in the Service Operation stage. Its purpose is to prevent or minimize service interruptions or degradation of service quality that incidents cause.

For Incident Management to be effective, you should define acceptable timescales for incident resolution, use incident models to define steps for resolving common types of incidents, and plan specialized responses for major incidents. It's also important to track the status of incidents throughout their lifecycles and to divide incident lifecycles into appropriate stages.

Back to top
 

The Incident Management Process
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•identify the activities of the Incident Management process
 
1. Incident identification and logging

Effective Incident Management helps ensure that an IT service provider can provide services at the levels outlined in a Service Level Agreement (SLA).

It does this by restoring normal service as quickly as possible after incidents occur and minimizing any impacts they cause.

The Incident Management process includes a defined sequence of steps:
1. incident identification 
2. incident logging 
3. incident categorization 
4. incident prioritization 
5. initial diagnosis 
6. incident escalation 
7. investigation and diagnosis 
8. resolution and recovery, and 
9. incident closure and if necessary, incident re-opening 

The first step is to identify an incident when it occurs. This may happen only when a user contacts the IT service desk with a problem.



Graphic

The first step of the Incident Management process is highlighted: Incident identification.

However, it's best if you can identify incidents before they inconvenience users, instead of only once services have been significantly disrupted.

To identify the nature of an incident, service desk staff or other IT personnel may question the affected users. They may also run remote diagnostic tests.

Once you've identified an incident, it's important to begin incident logging – which then continues throughout the lifecycle of the incident.



Graphic

The second step of the Incident Management process is highlighted: Incident logging.

You should log information about each incident's



Graphic

Some of the headings in an incident logging form are reference number, incident categorization, incident urgency, incident impact, incident prioritization, date / time recorded, employee recording incident, method of notification, reporting user department, call-back method, description of symptoms, incident status, related CI, support group, related problem / known error, resolution activities, resolution date and time, closure category and closure date and time.
category and impactIn a log, you should assign each incident a unique reference number for tracking purposes. You should also identify its category, the urgency of resolving the incident, its impact on users, and its priority level.

The way you categorize an incident will depend on your organization's system for doing this. Top-level categories may also be broken down into sub-categories.
The category and impact section contains a reference number, incident categorization, incident urgency, incident impact, and incident prioritization. nature and occurrence, andIn the log, you should include information such as the date and time the incident was recorded, the name or ID of the employee recording the incident, how the incident was identified, and the contact details for the department to which the user who reported the incident belongs. You should also include a description of symptoms, the incident status, related Configuration Items (CIs), and the support group responsible for resolving the incident.
The nature and occurrence section contains date / time recorded, employee recording incident, method of notification, reporting user department, call-back method, description of symptoms, incident status, related CI, and support group. resolutionOnce an incident has been resolved, you should update the log with any related problems or known errors associated with the incident, the activities taken to resolve the incident, the resolution date and time, the updated incident category, and the closure date and time.
The resolution section records any related problem / known error, resolution activities, resolution date and time, closure category, and closure date and time. 
If a service desk doesn't operate 24 hours a day, other groups, such as those involved in IT operations or network support, can log incidents outside service desk hours.

As further actions to resolve an incident are taken, the incident log should be updated so that a full history is maintained.

For example, this might include changing the categorization or priority of an incident based on the results of further diagnosis or escalation activities.

2. Categorization and prioritization

During initial incident logging, it's important to categorize incidents based on their type.



Graphic

The third step of the Incident Management process is highlighted: Incident categorization.

Different organizations define incident categories differently depending on their needs. However, it's important for organizations to develop and use a standard set of codes for this purpose.

To develop an appropriate set of incident categories, you can
conduct a brainstorming sessionYou can include members of relevant IT support groups in a brainstorming session, with the aim of generating appropriate top-level categories. It's best to base these categories on how incidents may affect customers and users. The group can then narrow down the proposed categories to identify those that are most appropriate.use trial categories, andAfter defining an initial set of incident categories, you should use these for a trial period. This period should be long enough for a sufficient number of incidents to occur to test the usability of the categories.

The number of incidents logged in each of the higher-level categories will confirm whether the categories are necessary. An analysis of incidents that don't fit in any of the categories should help identify any other higher-level categories to be added. A breakdown analysis of each category can help you determine the lower-level categories required.review and adjust the categoriesYou should review the categories in use and adjust them as necessary after a further period of one to three months. Be aware that any significant changes to categories may complicate the process of identifying incident trends and of creating management reports. So after initial adjustments, categories should be kept stable unless changes are genuinely required.
It's common to categorize incidents at multiple levels – usually to three or four levels of granularity. For example, an incident may be categorized based on the location, service, system, and application it affects.

It's worth noting that sometimes the details available at the time an incident is logged may be incomplete, misleading, or incorrect.

So it's important that the categorization of an incident is checked and updated if necessary.



Graphic

As an example, an incident is categorized as having impacted five terminals (location), the e-mail and Internet service, the network (system), and the e-mail server manager software (application).

Another important aspect of incident logging is to allocate an appropriate prioritization code. This will determine how the incident is prioritized.



Graphic

The fourth step of the Incident Management process is highlighted: Incident prioritization.

As an IT service provider, you should determine a priority coding system and be sure all staff are clear on the associated policies.



Graphic

As an example of a priority coding system, an incident is assigned an urgency rating and an impact rating of high, medium, or low respectively. An incident with a high urgency and impact is a 1. An incident with high urgency and medium impact, or medium urgency and high impact, is a 2. An incident with low urgency and high impact, medium urgency and impact, or and high urgency and low impact is a 3. An incident with medium urgency and low impact, or low urgency and medium impact, is a 4. An incident with both low urgency and low impact is a 5. 

It also gives a list of priority codes with corresponding descriptions and target resolution times. 1 is critical with a one-hour target resolution time. 2 is high with an 8 hours target resolution time. 3 is medium with a 24 hours target resolution time. 4 is low with a 48 hours target resolution time. 5 is marked as planning, with a target resolution time stated as "planned."

To determine the priority of an incident, you take its urgency and level of business impact into account. An indication of impact is often the number of users being affected, although if a single affected user is key to business, the consequences can be just as dire as an incident that impacts many users.

Other factors that help determine the impact of an incident include physical risk, number of affected services, potential financial loss, potential damage to an organization's business reputation, and legal implications.

There are also occasions in which the normal priority system is overridden, due to a user request or specific impact on a business.

As an example, it may be appropriate to assign an application crash that prevents affected users from performing all work duties a priority code of 2, where the code indicates high priority.

In this case, the priority code maps to a target resolution time of 8 hours. So this is the time within which a team should resolve the incident.



Question

As the service desk analyst at an IT service provider, you receive a report from a user that his e-mail is failing to send. 

Sequence the first four steps of the Incident Management process.

Options:
A.Ask the user questions to correctly identify the e-mail issue as an incident
B.Begin logging details of the e-mail incident on your departmental Incident Management form
C.Categorize the incident as interrupting the user's service, and affecting the user's computer
D.Assign the incident a priority rating of 3, given its moderate impact

Answer

Correct answer(s):
Ask the user questions to correctly identify the e-mail issue as an incident is ranked When the service desk receives notification of an event affecting a user, it's identified as an incident, and the Incident Management process can begin.Begin logging details of the e-mail incident on your departmental Incident Management form is ranked Once the event is identified as an incident, the logging of all relevant incident information can begin as part of the second step.Categorize the incident as interrupting the user's service, and affecting the user's computer is ranked Incident categorization is the third step. The incident will be categorized by what location, service, system, or application it impacts.Assign the incident a priority rating of 3, given its moderate impact is ranked During the fourth step, the incident will be allocated a priority code depending on the seriousness of the impact. The priority code suggests a recommended incident resolution time.
3. Diagnosis, escalation, and investigation

Each incident may be subject to two possible diagnoses – an initial diagnosis when it's first reported and a second diagnosis if the incident requires further investigation.



Graphic

The fifth step of the Incident Management process is highlighted: Initial diagnosis.

When a user initially reports an incident to a service desk, a service desk analyst tries to diagnose the incident by asking relevant questions. The analyst may then use software and currently available information to resolve the incident immediately.

If the incident can't be resolved immediately, the analyst should inform the user. It may also be appropriate to give the user an incident reference number, which is typically generated from electronic incident log applications.

When a user first reports a possible application crash, for example, a service desk analyst asks the user questions to try to determine the cause and nature of the incident.

The service desk analyst performs remote diagnostic testing on the user's computer and discovers possible operating system instability. The analyst can't handle the incident from the service desk, so the appropriate support staff are notified.

Some types of incidents occur regularly, so the appropriate resolution actions for these incidents are typically known. However, it's important to follow a procedure for matching data about an incident to the appropriate classification.

Successful matching will ensure that the response to an incident is appropriate and efficient. It also minimizes the need for escalation.

When it becomes clear that the service desk is unable to resolve the incident, the incident must be escalated immediately for further support. Types of escalation include



Graphic

The sixth step of the Incident Management process is highlighted: Incident escalation.
functional escalation, andFunctional escalation occurs when an incident is escalated one level at a time. If the service desk can't resolve the incident, it's escalated to the next appropriate support group, such as a tier 2 support group. If this group also can't resolve the incident, it's escalated further up the support chain. Some incidents may be escalated to multiple support groups, or even to third parties such as software suppliers or hardware manufacturers.hierarchic escalationIn the case of hierarchic escalation, an incident is escalated directly to a higher level within the organization, like the next level of management, for example, so that it receives the immediate attention of an appropriate person with required authority. Hierarchic escalation is also used if the investigation, diagnosis, and resolution and recovery steps are taking too long.

Hierarchic escalation should continue up the management chain as needed so that appropriate management personnel can approve or direct necessary action, such as allocating additional resources or involving suppliers for resolving the incident.
If an incident is escalated, it will go through a second stage of investigation and diagnosis.



Graphic

The seventh step of the Incident Management process is highlighted: Investigation and diagnosis.

The actions taken at this point, including details of any actions taken to try to resolve or re-create the incident, should be fully documented in the incident log to ensure it provides a complete incident history.

Where possible, investigation and diagnosis should be performed in parallel to reduce the overall time it takes to resolve an incident. Support tools should be designed or selected to allow this as much as possible.

Investigating an incident is likely to involve
• establishing exactly what has gone wrong or is being sought by the user 
• determining the chronological order of events that occurred 
• confirming the full impact of the incident, including the number and range of users affected 
• identifying any events that could have triggered the incident, and 
• searching incident records or known error databases for previous knowledge gained as a result of similar incidents 

The support group, investigating the application crash, performs tests on the affected systems and determines a potential resolution involving rebooting a server. The group's investigation reveals that the initial crash was a result of a failed automatic reboot.



Question

As a service desk IT analyst, you've already identified, logged, categorized, and prioritized a user's inability to send e-mail.

Sequence the subsequent three steps of the Incident Management process.

Options:
A.Attempting to find the reason for the e-mail failure at the time of the initial report
B.Referring the e-mail issue to a dedicated IT support team with the expertise to diagnose and resolve the incident
C.Searching known error databases for reasons why the e-mail may be failing to send

Answer

Correct answer(s):
Attempting to find the reason for the e-mail failure at the time of the initial report is ranked The fifth step of the Incident Management process – once the incident has been identified, logged, categorized and prioritized, is to run an initial diagnosis to find out the reason for the incident.Referring the e-mail issue to a dedicated IT support team with the expertise to diagnose and resolve the incident is ranked The incident is escalated in the sixth step if you, as the service desk analyst, can't resolve it.Searching known error databases for reasons why the e-mail may be failing to send is ranked The investigation and diagnosis step of the Incident Management process is the seventh step, and happens after the incident has been escalated.
4. Resolution, closure, and re-opening

Once a potential resolution to an incident has been identified, it should be applied and tested.



Graphic

The eighth step of the Incident Management process is highlighted: Resolution and recovery.

Various people may be involved in implementing measures to resolve an incident. These include
usersYou may ask users to perform certain activities on their own workstations or remote equipment to help resolve an incident. For example, you could ask a user to run a virus scan.service desk staffService desk staff may use central methods, like rebooting a server, to help resolve an incident. They may also address incidents remotely, for example using software to take control of a user's desktop and implement a resolution.members of support groups, andYou can ask specialist support groups to implement specific recovery actions. For example, you could ask a third-party task team to reconfigure a router to maintain network stability.third-party suppliersIt may be appropriate to ask a third-party supplier or service provider to resolve an incident. For example, you might ask a supplier to replace a faulty configuration on a router that's causing network failure.
If multiple support groups are involved in applying a resolution, it's important to coordinate their activities and liaise with all parties involved.

The dedicated IT support group, for example, implements the proposed resolution of using software to repair the operating system, registry, and e-mail software on the user's computer.

With an incident like a damaged operating system, the group then needs to test the computer repeatedly to verify that the incident has been successfully resolved and service restored.

After the incident has been resolved, it can be closed.



Graphic

The ninth step of the Incident Management process is highlighted: Incident closure / re-opening.

As part of the closure step, service desk staff should confirm that
the initial incident categorization was correctTo ensure that an accurate incident record is maintained, you should confirm that the initial categorization of the incident was correct – and update it if necessary. You can seek advice or guidance from any individuals or groups directly involved in resolving the incident, as necessary.users are satisfied with the resolutionYou can call users, or use a tool like an e-mail survey, to verify that users are satisfied with the resolution that has been applied.documentation has been updated, andIt's important to ensure that the incident documentation is complete and fully updated.the incident's root cause has been addressedIf the root cause of an incident hasn't been addressed, it's possible the incident will recur. If the root cause wasn't successfully identified or couldn't be resolved, you should determine whether a problem record related to the incident has already been raised. If not, raise a new problem record in conjunction with the Problem Management process so that preventive action is initiated.
Some organizations choose to apply an automatic closure period for specific, or even all, incidents. For example, an organization's policy may specify that any incident will be closed after two days if no further user contact has occurred.

Regardless of the duration, you can formally close an incident once you're certain it has been fully addressed and shouldn't recur.

Even with adequate management, there will be occasions when incidents recur despite being closed. The decision can then be made to re-open the incident – the optional final phase of the Incident Management process.

It's wise to have predefined rules about if and when an incident can be re-opened.

It might make sense, for example, to agree that if an incident recurs within one working day of being closed, it can be re-opened – but that beyond this point, a new incident must be logged, but linked to the previous incident.



Question

Sequence examples of the final steps in the Incident Management process for the example of the user who can't send e-mails.

Options:
A.Performing tests on the user's computer to discover a problem with the operating system
B.Following the results of the investigation and diagnosis the support team runs software to repair a damaged operating system
C.You log the incident as closed once you have feedback from the support team and user

Answer

Correct answer(s):
Performing tests on the user's computer to discover a problem with the operating system is ranked The seventh step of the Incident Management process is to investigate and, at the same time, diagnose the incident. Following the results of the investigation and diagnosis the support team runs software to repair a damaged operating system is ranked The incident resolution phase follows the investigation and diagnosis phase, in the eighth step.You log the incident as closed once you have feedback from the support team and user is ranked Once the incident is resolved and tested, it can be closed. This is the ninth step of the Incident Management process. If the incident recurs within a short time of being closed, it can be re-opened in the ninth step.
5. Summary

The Incident Management process is a series of steps for resolving IT incidents by restoring and maintaining normal IT service. The process starts with initial incident identification and logging of all relevant incident information.

An incident is then categorized and prioritized, based on who or what is affected and the severity of the incident's impact.

An incident is initially diagnosed at service desk level. It may be escalated if necessary to a dedicated IT support group, which then investigates and diagnoses the incident.

The support group implements incident resolution. Once service is restored, the incident is closed. It may be re-opened if it recurs soon after closure.

Back to top
 

Managing Incidents
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•identify the scope of Incident Management
•identify the basic principles of Incident Management
•identify the activities of the Incident Management process, given a scenario
 
1. Exercise overview

In this exercise, you're required to manage incidents.

This involves the following tasks:
•identifying the scope of Incident Management
•identifying the basic principles of Incident Management, and
•ordering the activities of Incident Management

2. Identifying scope



Question

What examples of IT events fall within the scope of the Incident Management process?

Options:
1.A failed system reboot disrupts an online library reservation system, preventing the public from reserving books
2.An office network in which the Internet periodically crashes
3.A library user calls the service desk to access their borrowing history
4.A manager forgets a password and so can't access an e-mail account
5.A search engine provides inaccurate results due to incorrect coding in a database server

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Any event that interrupts or could disrupt normal IT service is classed as an incident. So this event would be handled through Incident Management.

Option 2: Correct. The undiagnosed incident is negatively affecting Internet access, which is an IT service. So it should be handled through an Incident Management process.

Option 3: Incorrect. Although the library user is unable to access the required information without help from the service desk, normal library services remain uninterrupted. So this event falls outside the scope of Incident Management.

Option 4: Incorrect. Although the manager may be inconvenienced, no interruption to normal IT services has occurred. So this event doesn't qualify as an incident.

Option 5: Correct. In this example, normal IT services are compromised. So the event qualifies as an incident and should be handled through the Incident Management process.

Correct answer(s):

1. A failed system reboot disrupts an online library reservation system, preventing the public from reserving books
2. An office network in which the Internet periodically crashes
5. A search engine provides inaccurate results due to incorrect coding in a database server



Question

Consider additional examples of events.

What examples should be dealt with through Incident Management?

Options:
1.Users who fail to update their login details are blocked from using a site
2.A network loop causes an entire network to crash, preventing users from accessing network resources
3.An employee configures a connection to the office scanner incorrectly and is unable to scan documents
4.A customer can't access the Internet due to being supplied with a faulty modem
5.A virus infection causes an organization's mail server to crash, preventing employees from accessing e-mail

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. Although service is interrupted for users who don't update their login details, there's no incident to resolve in this case. So this isn't covered by the Incident Management process.

Option 2: Correct. When a network crashes, normal IT services are interrupted. This qualifies as an incident and so falls within the scope of Incident Management.

Option 3: Incorrect. The employee can't scan documents, but this is due to flawed configuration. No actual interruption in normal IT services has occurred, so the event isn't within the scope of Incident Management.

Option 4: Correct. Normal service to the customer is disrupted because of the faulty equipment, so this event qualifies as an incident and should be handled through Incident Management.

Option 5: Correct. Normal IT services are interrupted by the crash, so this event falls within the scope of Incident Management. 

Correct answer(s):

2. A network loop causes an entire network to crash, preventing users from accessing network resources
4. A customer can't access the Internet due to being supplied with a faulty modem
5. A virus infection causes an organization's mail server to crash, preventing employees from accessing e-mail



Question

What examples are within the scope of Incident Management?

Options:
1.A manager contacts the service desk to request access to a secure network drive
2.A power failure causes an office server to crash, and the server has to be rebooted before network access can be restored
3.An employee asks that all work e-mail be automatically forwarded to a home e-mail address
4.A damaged network cable prevents one employee from accessing an office printer
5.An IT support analyst discovers a virus infection on a workstation

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. Although an IT service desk may handle the manager's request, this event doesn't involve any interruption to normal IT services. So it doesn't qualify as an incident.

Option 2: Correct. The power failure qualifies as an incident because it interrupts normal network services. So it falls within the scope of Incident Management.

Option 3: Incorrect. No interruption to normal IT services has occurred in this case, so it doesn't qualify as an incident.

Option 4: Correct. Although only one employee is affected, normal IT services for this user have been interrupted. So this qualifies as an incident and should be handled through Incident Management.

Option 5: Correct. Although the virus was identified before it interrupted services, it has the potential to interrupt normal IT services. So it qualifies as an incident and falls within the scope of Incident Management.

Correct answer(s):

2. A power failure causes an office server to crash, and the server has to be rebooted before network access can be restored
4. A damaged network cable prevents one employee from accessing an office printer
5. An IT support analyst discovers a virus infection on a workstation

3. Identifying principles

Organizations' needs and circumstances differ, so their processes for managing IT incidents differ too. However, adhering to certain general principles can help ensure that the Incident Management process is effective.



Question

What are some of the principles for effective Incident Management?

Options:
1.You should establish a system that splits incidents into either an active or inactive category
2.It's important to form a new incident support team for every reported incident that the service desk can't solve
3.You should establish timescales for each stage of the Incident Management process
4.You should create common incident models and a step-by-step resolution for each one
5.You should divide the incident lifecycle into clear stages
6.You should plan special responses to major incidents

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. Effective Incident Management will track each incident through every stage of the incident lifecycle, not just active and inactive.

Option 2: Incorrect. It's best to establish a dedicated team to deal with major incidents. Regular IT support employees can handle smaller incidents.

Option 3: Correct. An important principle of Incident Management is to set timescales for completing each step in the process. This helps ensure that all support staff know what the agreed targets are and can prioritize incidents accordingly.

Option 4: Correct. Using incident models can result in much more efficient resolution of common incidents. The models define appropriate sets of steps for responding to incidents of particular types.

Option 5: Correct. It's useful to break the incident lifecycle into various phases, including detection, diagnosis, repair, recovery, and restoration. This can result in better understanding and handling of an incident.

Option 6: Correct. It's useful to have a model or set of steps for dealing with major incidents. An organization may define what constitutes a major incident, although typically it's any incident that interrupts critical services and takes considerable time to repair.

Correct answer(s):

3. You should establish timescales for each stage of the Incident Management process
4. You should create common incident models and a step-by-step resolution for each one
5. You should divide the incident lifecycle into clear stages
6. You should plan special responses to major incidents



Question

You're an IT support analyst and receive a call from the service desk reporting a network loop. As loops happened fairly frequently on networks, you decide to create an incident model for dealing with them.

What should the incident model contain?

Options:
1.A document that lists the underlying causes of network loops
2.A guide on resolving a network loop and resuming network service
3.A list of people to contact if the network crashes, and the order in which to do so
4.Steps to take before implementing a resolution to protect against risks like possible data loss
5.A list of resolution actions to be divided among available IT support staff

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. An incident model groups various incidents based on their symptoms. However, the causes of actual incidents will be unknown until the incidents have been properly diagnosed.

Option 2: Correct. The purpose of an incident model is to serve as a step-by-step guide for resolving a particular type of incident.

Option 3: Correct. An incident model should include the contact details for support staff who may need to participate in resolving the relevant type of incident. It should also define steps for escalating the incident if necessary, including who to contact at each point.

Option 4: Correct. A model should detail any precautions that should be taken before the steps for resolving an incident are applied. An example is backing up data and configuration files.

Option 5: Incorrect. An incident model should specify exactly which employees are responsible for taking which actions, rather than just suggesting a list of tasks to be randomly divided among staff.

Correct answer(s):

2. A guide on resolving a network loop and resuming network service
3. A list of people to contact if the network crashes, and the order in which to do so
4. Steps to take before implementing a resolution to protect against risks like possible data loss



Question

As an IT analyst, you are faced with a potentially major incident – a malfunctioning power supply on a server, which could result in the loss of valuable business data.

What Incident Management principles apply specifically to managing major incidents?

Options:
1.Define target resolution times for each phase of the resolution process
2.Establish a dedicated team to resolve the incident
3.Appoint a dedicated person to manage the resolution of the malfunctioning server
4.Establish an emergency working environment in which the incident manager can pause work on lesser incidents until the major incident is resolved
5.Prioritize actions for minimizing the impact of the incident

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. It's important to define target resolution times for all incidents, not just for major ones. However, a major incident requires quick resolution because of its potentially severe negative impact.

Option 2: Correct. A dedicated support team should be established to resolve the incident as quickly and efficiently as possible. This type of team won't be distracted by having to deal with other, less serious incidents.

Option 3: Correct. It's best to appoint a separate manager to deal exclusively with a major incident, rather than having the usual incident manager do this. This helps ensure that the serious incident receives sufficient attention, but also that more routine incidents continue to be dealt with.

Option 4: Incorrect. It's best to appoint a separate major incident manager so that work can continue unabated on other incidents. In this way, the major incident will also receive the appointed manager's undivided attention.

Option 5: Correct. A major incident has a potentially severe impact on an organization and so should be prioritized over all other incidents.

Correct answer(s):

2. Establish a dedicated team to resolve the incident
3. Appoint a dedicated person to manage the resolution of the malfunctioning server
5. Prioritize actions for minimizing the impact of the incident

4. Identifying activities

You're a service desk analyst working for an Internet service provider. You receive a call from a customer who's unable to connect to the Internet.



Question

Sequence the first three steps of the process for managing the incident.

Options:
A.While on the phone with the customer, verify that the customer is using the correct login details
B.Log all the details of the incident, including which support group will handle it
C.Assign a category code to the incident, based on the fact that it is resulting in complete loss of Internet access

Answer

Correct answer(s):
While on the phone with the customer, verify that the customer is using the correct login details is ranked As the first step in the Incident Management process, you identify an incident – which involves an interruption or degradation of normal IT services.Log all the details of the incident, including which support group will handle it is ranked Once an event is identified as an incident, the second step is to log all relevant information about the incident.Assign a category code to the incident, based on the fact that it is resulting in complete loss of Internet access is ranked Incident categorization is the third step in the Incident Management process. It involves categorizing an incident based on what location, service, system, or application it impacts.


Question

Sequence the next set of Incident Management steps in order.

Options:
A.Assign the incident a low priority, on the basis that it's currently affecting only one customer
B.Ask the customer questions about when access was lost and what was occurring at the time
C.Allocate responsibility for resolving the incident to a specific support agent

Answer

Correct answer(s):
Assign the incident a low priority, on the basis that it's currently affecting only one customer is ranked After categorizing the incident, and as part of the fourth step, you should assign it a priority code or level, based on the severity of its impact. Particular priority levels may be associated with corresponding target resolution times.Ask the customer questions about when access was lost and what was occurring at the time is ranked The fifth step in the process, which follows incident prioritization, is conducting an initial diagnosis of the incident. This may occur over the telephone when an incident is reported.Allocate responsibility for resolving the incident to a specific support agent is ranked If you can't resolve an incident immediately after an initial diagnosis, you need to escalate the incident to the appropriate support group as part of the sixth step.


Question

Place the final steps of the Incident Management process in the correct order.

Options:
A.The support agent uses diagnostic software to check the customer's account to detect any problems
B.You implement actions to restore the customer's Internet access
C.You call to verify that the customer can access the Internet and is satisfied, and then close the incident

Answer

Correct answer(s):
The support agent uses diagnostic software to check the customer's account to detect any problems is ranked In step seven, the relevant support agent or team should further investigate and diagnose the incident.You implement actions to restore the customer's Internet access is ranked The eighth step is resolution and recovery, during which normal services are restored.You call to verify that the customer can access the Internet and is satisfied, and then close the incident is ranked Once the incident has been resolved, you should test that the customer is satisfied and ensure that the information recorded about the incident is complete. You can then close the incident. Should the incident occur again a short time later, you may need to re-open the incident.
The scope and principles of the Incident Management process, as well as the order of the steps it involves, have been identified.

Back to top
 

Incident Management Interfaces
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•describe how Incident Management interfaces with other Service Lifecycle processes
 
1. Incident Management and other processes

Incident Management interfaces with various processes in the Service Transition, Service Design, and Service Operation, stages of the Service Lifecycle.



Graphic

The other stages of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle are Service Strategy and Continual Service Improvement. 

Within the Service Operation stage, Incident Management interfaces with two processes – Problem Management and Access Management.

It's sometimes necessary to involve Problem Management in investigating and resolving the underlying causes of incidents. Problem Management, in return, provides information about existing problems and known issues that could be the causes of incidents. This information can facilitate faster incident resolution.

For example, a group of employees can't access their e-mail. While trying to restore their e-mail access, Incident Management interfaces with Problem Management to help determine why the employees have lost e-mail access.

Problem Management identifies certain known issues that affect the e-mail service, and provides a permanent fix that can be used to restore the employees' e-mail access.

Incident Management interfaces with Access Management when incidents relate to unauthorized access attempts or other types of security breaches.

Access Management may use historical incident records from Incident Management to review access controls.

Similarly, Incident Management may use information from Access Management to help resolve incidents that involve access breaches.



Question

How does Incident Management interface with Service Operation?

Options:
1.It may involve Problem Management to investigate and resolve the underlying cause of incidents
2.It maintains a history of incidents that can be used by Access Management to support forensic investigation activities
3.It alerts Capacity Management to performance-related incidents
4.It interfaces with Access Management to resolve security breach incidents

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Problem Management activities should be involved when investigating incidents to prevent or reduce the recurrence of the incidents.

Option 2: Correct. Incident Management interfaces with Access Management to assist with forensic investigation activities.

Option 3: Incorrect. Capacity Management is a process in the Service Design stage, rather than the Service Operation stage.

Option 4: Correct. Incident Management interfaces with Access Management when unauthorized access attempts to resolve security breaches.

Correct answer(s):

1. It may involve Problem Management to investigate and resolve the underlying cause of incidents
2. It maintains a history of incidents that can be used by Access Management to support forensic investigation activities
4. It interfaces with Access Management to resolve security breach incidents

Incident Management also interfaces with four processes in the Service Design stage.
Service Level ManagementIncident Management enables Service Level Management (SLM) to define measurable responses to service disruptions. It also assists with determining where services are at their weakest, so that SLM can define actions as part of the service improvement plan. SLM defines the acceptable levels of service within which Incident Management works. It defines incident response times, impact definitions, target resolution times, service definitions, rules for requesting services, and expectations for providing feedback to users.

For example, a number of incidents that involve an application crashing are reported. SLM defines an uptime of this application of 99.5%, with a 60-minute resolution time for any downtime to the application. 
Information Security ManagementIncident Management provides Information Security Management with incident information as needed to support Service Design activities and enable evaluation of the effectiveness of overall security measures.

For example, the Incident Management process might provide Information Security Management with a report of all unauthorized e-mail access incidents. Information Security Management would then use this information to evaluate current e-mail security measures. 
Capacity ManagementIncident Management alerts Capacity Management to performance-related incidents. These may trigger performance monitoring and capacity changes. In turn, Capacity Management may help Incident Management resolve incidents – for instance by increasing the capacity that's available.

For example, employees continuously report that access to e-mail is unusually slow during peak times. Incident Management informs Capacity Management of the incident so that it can be monitored, and further steps taken if necessary to increase the capacity of the network. 
Availability ManagementAvailability Management uses Incident Management data to determine the actual availability of IT services. This can be compared to the required availability levels. Availability and Incident Management may then work together to improve service availability as necessary.

For example, Availability Management might use incident records created during the Incident Management process to determine the availability of an e-mail service. It could also interface with Incident Management to develop a plan to improve the service's availability. 



Question

How does Incident Management interface with Service Design?

Options:
1.It detects incidents that arise from failed changes that have been implemented through Change Management
2.It informs Capacity Management about performance-related incidents
3.It enables SLM to determine where services are at their weakest
4.It contains the information that Availability Management uses to determine the availability of IT services
5.It helps investigate and resolve underlying causes of incidents

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. Change Management is a process of the Service Transition stage, not the Service Design stage.

Option 2: Correct. Incident Management helps identify performance-related incidents to which Capacity Management responds with performance monitoring and capacity changes.

Option 3: Correct. Incident Management helps to determine where services are at their weakest, so that SLM can define a service improvement plan. 

Option 4: Correct. Availability Management processes use data collected during Incident Management to determine the availability of IT services, and where the incident lifecycle can be improved.

Option 5: Incorrect. Problem Management, a process of the Service Operation – not Service Design – stage, provides the means to investigate and resolve underlying causes.

Correct answer(s):

2. It informs Capacity Management about performance-related incidents
3. It enables SLM to determine where services are at their weakest
4. It contains the information that Availability Management uses to determine the availability of IT services

Within the Service Transition stage, Incident Management interfaces with the Service Asset and Configuration Management (SACM) and Change Management processes.

One of the uses of the Configuration Management System (CSM) is to identify faulty equipment and to assess the impact of associated incidents. 

Incident Management can provide SACM with information about faulty Configuration Items (CIs). It can also help SACM assess the infrastructure of supporting services to help identify the cause of an incident and resolve it.

For example, SACM may identify a faulty router and determine that it could be contributing to incidents involving loss of e-mail access. Incident Management maintains information about the status of the router, which is fed back to the SACM process. It also uses information from SACM to help resolve the incident related to e-mail access.

Where a change is required to implement a workaround or resolution, this will need to be logged as a Request for Change (RFC) and handled through Change Management. 

In turn, Incident Management detects and resolves incidents that arise from failed changes.

For example, an RFC may involve replacing an e-mail server. Once the change is approved and implemented, Incident Management would need to monitor the change closely to identify and resolve any incidents involving e-mail access that could arise as a result.



Question

How does Incident Management interface with Service Transition?

Options:
1.It enables SLM to define measurable responses to the loss of network connections
2.It provides Information Security Management with information to enable evaluation of the security measures
3.It identifies and resolves incidents that arise from changes made through Change Management
4.It interfaces with SACM to identify the faulty wireless router

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. SLM is a process in the Service Design stage, not the Service Transition stage.

Option 2: Incorrect. Information Security Management is a process in the Service Design stage, rather than the Service Transition stage.

Option 3: Correct. Within the Service Transition Service Lifecycle stage, Incident Management interfaces with Service Asset and Configuration Management, and Change Management.

Option 4: Correct. During Incident Management, information about faulty CIs is collected. This information is used during SACM to assess the infrastructure of supporting services.

Correct answer(s):

3. It identifies and resolves incidents that arise from changes made through Change Management
4. It interfaces with SACM to identify the faulty wireless router

2. Summary

Incident Management interfaces with the Problem Management and Access Management processes in the Service Operation stage of the Service Lifecycle. It interfaces with the Service Level Management, Information Security Management, Capacity Management, and Availability Management processes in the Service Design stage. It also interfaces with the SACM and Change Management processes in the Service Transition stage.

Back to top
 

The Scope and Principles of Problem Management
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•describe the scope of Problem Management
•describe the basic principles of Problem Management
 
1. Scope of Problem Management

ITIL® defines a problem as an underlying cause of one or more incidents.

Problem Management is the process for managing problems throughout their lifecycles. It forms part of the Service Operation stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle.



Graphic

The ITIL® Service Lifecycle contains the Service Strategy, Service, Design, Service Transition, Service Operation, and Continual Service Improvement stages. 

The purpose of Problem Management is to identify, document, and resolve problems.

The Problem Management process covers several objectives:
• proactively prevent problems and associated incidents from occurring 
• eliminate recurring incidents by identifying and resolving their root causes, and 
• minimize the impact of problems that can't be prevented 



Question

What are the objectives of Problem Management?

Options:
1.Proactively prevent incidents by searching for and resolving their root causes
2.Prevent incidents from recurring
3.Minimize the impact of problems
4.Respond to IT infrastructure incidents as they occur
5.Track incidents to ensure they're fully resolved

Answer

Option 1: Correct. An objective of Problem Management is to identify and resolve problems that are the root causes of IT-related incidents.

Option 2: Correct. An objective of Problem Management is to identify, document, and then resolve problems, which are defined as the root causes of incidents. In this way, it prevents incidents from recurring.

Option 3: Correct. If Problem Management can't resolve a problem, it should aim to minimize the impact of the problem on business.

Option 4: Incorrect. Problem Management focuses on identifying and resolving problems that are the underlying causes of incidents. Incident Management, which is a separate management process, focuses on responding to incidents as they occur.

Option 5: Incorrect. The focus of Problem Management is on tracking and resolving problems, or the underlying causes of incidents. Incident Management, which is a separate process, involves tracking and managing incidents.

Correct answer(s):

1. Proactively prevent incidents by searching for and resolving their root causes
2. Prevent incidents from recurring
3. Minimize the impact of problems

The scope of Problem Management includes diagnosing the root causes of incidents and determining resolutions.

Implementing resolutions through the appropriate control procedures, especially Change Management and Release and Deployment Management, is also included in Problem Management's scope.

Another aspect in Problem Management's scope is maintaining and documenting information about problems and appropriate workarounds and resolutions.

The purpose of a workaround is to reduce the number or severity of associated incidents until the underlying problem can be resolved – or to provide an alternative solution when it's not possible to eliminate the problem completely.

Several other activities fall within the scope of Problem Management:
• conducting periodic scheduled reviews of incident records to find patterns and trends that may indicate errors in the infrastructure 
• conducting major incident reviews 
• conducting periodic scheduled reviews of operational logs and maintenance records to identify patterns and trends in activities 
• conducting periodic scheduled reviews of event logs to identify patterns and trends – for example, in warning and exception events records 
• conducting brainstorming sessions to identify trends, and 
• using check sheets to collect data on service or operational quality issues 



Question

What activities are included in the scope of Problem Management?

Options:
1.Diagnosing root causes of incidents and determining how to resolve them
2.Maintaining information about problems and the appropriate workarounds and resolutions
3.Performing periodic scheduled reviews of event logs to identify patterns and trends
4.Using checklists to collect general data about service or operational quality issues after incidents occur
5.Ensuring that incidents involving service disruptions are properly tracked and documented

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Problem Management processes enable you to identify and diagnose problems that are the root causes of incidents, and initiate actions for resolving the problems or minimizing their impact.

Option 2: Correct. Problem Management helps you document problems and associated resolutions, or steps for working around the problems if they can't be eliminated. This helps prevent or minimize the impact of IT service problems on business.

Option 3: Correct. Problem Management proactively helps to identify IT-related problems, for example with periodic reviews of the warning and exception events recorded in event logs. You can then take steps to address the problems before they result in incidents.

Option 4: Incorrect. Effective Problem Management involves collecting general data about service or operational quality issues proactively, to identify problems before they result in incidents. It does also address problems after incidents have occurred, but this wouldn't involve collecting general information about service or operational quality.

Option 5: Incorrect. Incident Management, rather than Problem Management, ensures that incidents are properly tracked and recorded.

Correct answer(s):

1. Diagnosing root causes of incidents and determining how to resolve them
2. Maintaining information about problems and the appropriate workarounds and resolutions
3. Performing periodic scheduled reviews of event logs to identify patterns and trends

2. Problem Management principles

Effective Problem Management depends on three important principles. It should include both reactive and proactive approaches, it should make use of problem models, and it shouldn't be confused with Incident Management.

The difference between reactive and proactive Problem Management lies in how the Problem Management process is triggered.
Reactive Problem ManagementReactive Problem Management activities are triggered by incidents that have already occurred. These activities complement Incident Management activities by focusing on finding and resolving the underlying causes of incidents, and identifying workarounds when necessary. 
Proactive Problem ManagementThe goal of improving overall service quality or delivery drives proactive Problem Management. It involves seeking out problems and resolving them before they cause incidents, or before incidents are directly linked to them. For example, trend analysis of historical incident records may suggest an underlying problem, which can then be investigated.

Proactive Problem Management complements Continual Service Improvement (CSI) activities. Both contribute to ongoing improvements in IT services – and problems identified through proactive Problem Management may be recorded in the CSI register as improvement opportunities. 

Proactive Problem Management redirects the efforts of an organization from reacting to incidents to preventing incidents. This enables the organization to provide better service to its customers and make more effective use of available IT resources.

Another principle of effective Problem Management is to use problem models. Problem models are sequenced steps to follow when resolving specific types of problems, which increases efficiency in dealing with problems when they actually occur.

Problem models and workarounds for known errors should be recorded in a Known Error Database (KEDB) so they can be easily retrieved when they're needed.

A final principle for effective Problem Management is to avoid confusing it with Incident Management.

Incident Management and Problem Management focus on different areas.
IncidentsAn incident is an unplanned interruption to an IT service or a reduction in the quality of an IT service. The cause may be an underlying problem. Users losing access to their e-mail is an example of an incident.

Incident Management activities focus on restoring services to their normal state as soon as possible after service disruptions occur. 
ProblemsA problem is an actual or potential cause of incidents. A faulty e-mail server is an example of a problem. This could result in one or more incidents in which users lose access to e-mail services.

Problem Management activities focus on finding ways to prevent incidents from occurring. 

Although the two processes differ, they're obviously related – and Incident Management activities may invoke Problem Management activities. For example, one or more incidents handled through Incident Management may indicate an underlying problem, which is then recorded and handled through Problem Management.

The rules for invoking Problem Management during an incident may vary among different organizations.



Question

What's the main difference between Problem Management and Incident Management?

Options:
1.Incident Management focuses on restoring services to normal as soon as possible, whereas Problem Management focuses on preventing incidents from occurring or recurring
2.Incident Management is proactive whereas Problem Management is largely reactive
3.Incident Management focuses on less serious errors and issues than Problem Management

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Incident Management is the process for managing disruptions to IT services, whereas Problem Management focuses on addressing the problems underlying those disruptions.

Option 2: Incorrect. Incident Management involves responding to incidents and so is largely reactive. Problem Management, however, includes both proactive and reactive elements.

Option 3: Incorrect. Incident Management involves managing all incidents, including ones with potentially very significant consequences. Similarly, Problem Management involves managing all problems associated with IT services, including major problems and less serious ones.

Correct answer(s):

1. Incident Management focuses on restoring services to normal as soon as possible, whereas Problem Management focuses on preventing incidents from occurring or recurring

It may be appropriate to invoke Problem Management during an incident in various circumstances:
• Problem Management may have information about existing problems and known errors that could be contributing to one or more incidents 
• trend analysis of logged incidents suggests an underlying problem 
• Problem Management activities can help identify the root cause of the incident 
• a support group, a supplier, or other IT functions identify that a problem condition exists, or 
• the service desk has resolved an incident but hasn't determined a definitive cause and suspects it's likely to recur 



Question

What are principles for effective Problem Management?

Options:
1.Identifying and resolving problems before they cause incidents, as well as responding to reported problems or potential problems
2.Creating and using defined sequences of steps for resolving common problems
3.Focusing on addressing the root causes of incidents, rather than on incidents themselves
4.Implementing workarounds rather than full problem resolutions when possible, to save costs
5.Prioritizing restoring services after disruptions occur

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Effective Problem Management includes both proactive and reactive elements. It contributes to ongoing service improvements by identifying and resolving problems before they cause service disruptions.

Option 2: Correct. Using problem models, which define sequences of steps for resolving commonly encountered problems or known errors, can result in faster problem resolution.

Option 3: Correct. Problem Management shouldn't be confused with Incident Management. It focuses on the underlying causes of incidents, rather than on incidents themselves.

Option 4: Incorrect. Workarounds are usually only temporary fixes – and it's often more cost-effective in the long run to resolve problems completely.

Option 5: Incorrect. Incident Management, rather than Problem Management, focuses on restoring IT services to their normal state after disruptions occur.

Correct answer(s):

1. Identifying and resolving problems before they cause incidents, as well as responding to reported problems or potential problems
2. Creating and using defined sequences of steps for resolving common problems
3. Focusing on addressing the root causes of incidents, rather than on incidents themselves

3. Summary

The Problem Management process includes diagnosing the root causes of incidents and determining how to resolve them, implementing the resolutions, and maintaining information about problems. It includes both reactive and proactive aspects.

Effective Problem Management relies on both reactive and proactive Problem Management activities, and the use of problem models. It shouldn't be confused with Incident Management, which focuses on restoring IT services to normal as soon as possible after disruptions occur.

Back to top
 

The Problem Management Process
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•identify the activities of the Problem Management process
 
1. The Problem Management process

The Problem Management process, as outlined by ITIL®, consists of ten steps. First a problem is detected. Then it's logged, categorized, and prioritized.



Graphic

A diagram shows the first four steps of the Problem Management process: Problem detection, Problem logging, Problem categorization, and Problem prioritization.

The problem is investigated and diagnosed, and, if possible, a workaround is developed to address the problem temporarily.



Graphic

The next two steps are added to the diagram: Problem investigation and diagnosis, and Workarounds.

If relevant, a known error record is then raised.



Graphic

The next step Raising known error if required is added to the diagram.

Finally, to resolve the problem, you typically follow these three steps:
• implement the solution to the problem 
Problem resolution is added to the Problem Management process diagram. 
• close the problem record, and 
Problem closure is added to the diagram. 
• if the problem was classified as major, review the problem and its resolution 
Major problem review is added to the diagram. 

The steps of the Problem Management process are iterative in that the results of a final review inform subsequent Problem Management activities where relevant.

Organizations may also vary the steps. For example, a workaround may be applied as soon as a major problem is detected, before its root cause is identified.



Graphic

The steps in the process, again, are Problem detection, Problem logging, Problem categorization, Problem prioritization, Problem investigation and diagnosis, Workarounds, Raising a known error record if required, Problem resolution, Problem closure, and Major problem review.

2. Detect, log, categorize, prioritize

Problem Management personnel typically detect a problem in one of two ways:



Graphic

Problem detection is highlighted in the Problem Management process diagram. 
reactively, orThe Problem Management process may be triggered in response to a problem that has already been reported. For example, a problem may be reported by a service desk if it appears to be the cause of certain incidents. A problem may also be identified by a technical support group that analyzes an incident, by an automated system, or by a supplier or contractor.proactivelyA problem may be detected as a result of proactive activities, designed to identify problems before they have serious negative effects on customers or users. For example, a problem may be identified through regular quality of service improvement activities.
For example, a service desk receives reports from several regional sales representatives, who can't access the company virtual private network (VPN) to upload their daily sales orders.

After logging each of the reported incidents, the service desk opens a problem report – because the incidents indicate an underlying problem.

Once a problem has been detected, its details should be recorded. This ensures that the problem can be adequately tracked and managed, and that the organization accumulates an historical record of all problems.

The initial problem record should be updated throughout the remainder of the problem's lifecycle.



Graphic

Problem logging is highlighted in the Problem Management process diagram. 

Some of the details that should be logged in a problem record are
• details of the individual reporting the problem 
• the date and time the problem was initially logged 
• service and equipment details 
• priority and categorization details 
• information about any incidents thought to be associated with the problem, including incident record numbers, and 
• details of all diagnostic or attempted recovery actions taken 

Next a problem should be categorized, using the same coding system that was used to categorize any associated incidents.

For example, incidents and associated problems may be categorized as "service unavailable" or "slow performance."

To ensure problems are categorized correctly, support staff require clear problem definitions.



Graphic

Problem categorization is highlighted in the Problem Management process diagram. A problem like users being unable to connect to a VPN may be categorized as "Service unavailable."

After categorizing a problem, you need to prioritize it based on its potential impact and urgency.



Graphic

Problem prioritization is highlighted in the Problem Management process diagram.

Each problem should be assigned an appropriate priority code level, which may be mapped to a corresponding target resolution time.



Graphic

As an example of a priority coding system, a problem is assigned an urgency rating and an impact rating of high, medium, or low respectively. A problem with a high urgency and impact is a 1. A problem with high urgency and medium impact, or medium urgency and high impact, is a 2. A problem with low urgency and high impact, medium urgency and impact, or and high urgency and low impact is a 3. A problem with medium urgency and low impact, or low urgency and medium impact, is a 4. A problem with both low urgency and low impact is a 5. 

It also gives a list of priority codes with corresponding descriptions and target resolution times. 1 is critical with a one-hour target resolution time. 2 is high with an 8 hours target resolution time. 3 is medium with a 24 hours target resolution time. 4 is low with a 48 hours target resolution time. 5 is marked as planning, with a target resolution time stated as "planned."

For instance, the VPN access problem that's preventing sales orders from being uploaded may be assigned a medium level of impact and a high level of urgency. Using a simple coding system, the problem can then be assigned the code 2 – which is associated with a target resolution time of 8 hours.



Question

An IT service provider recently updated a database in a client's call center. Now the service desk receives several complaints from the client, explaining that up to 5% of attempts by customer service representatives (CSRs) to save caller information are failing daily.

What are the first four steps of the Problem Management process in this scenario?

Options:
1.The service desk escalates the individual incidents because it suspects an underlying problem
2.The help desk gathers previously reported incidents from incident records, and includes them in the problem record
3.The IT unit labels the problem as "Service interruptions"
4.The impact and urgency of the interruptions are judged to be high
5.The service desk tells users the network is experiencing a bandwidth problem and that the service will be running again soon
6.The IT unit sends out a technician to resolve the problem

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The first step in the process is problem detection. This may occur if, for example, one or more incidents point to an underlying problem.

Option 2: Correct. Once a problem has been detected, it's important to begin logging the details of the problem. This ensures that the problem can be tracked and that an organization will have a historical record of it to refer to later.

Option 3: Correct. As the third step, a problem should be categorized in the same way as any related incident, based on its type. For example, a problem may relate to a service interruption or to slow performance.

Option 4: Correct. The fourth step in the process is prioritizing a problem, based on its urgency and potential impact.

Option 5: Incorrect. The service desk shouldn't make excuses for incidents. Also, the problem hasn't yet been investigated, so it's not valid to make assumptions about its nature or resolution.

Option 6: Incorrect. The first four steps of the Problem Management process are to detect, log, categorize, and then prioritize a problem. It would be too soon to send a technician when the basic problem hasn't yet been administered.

Correct answer(s):

1. The service desk escalates the individual incidents because it suspects an underlying problem
2. The help desk gathers previously reported incidents from incident records, and includes them in the problem record
3. The IT unit labels the problem as "Service interruptions"
4. The impact and urgency of the interruptions are judged to be high

3. Investigate, work around, raise error

Once a problem has been prioritized, it should be investigated and diagnosed, with the aim of uncovering its root cause.



Graphic

Problem investigation and diagnosis is highlighted in the Problem Management process diagram.

The speed and nature of this investigation will vary depending on the priority assigned to the problem and the associated target resolution time.

Some of the problem-solving techniques you can use to investigate and diagnose a problem include
brainstormingDuring a brainstorming session, a group generates as many ideas as possible about the causes of a problem and resolutions. The group then narrows down its ideas, agrees on actions, and documents the results.the "5-Whys" techniqueThe 5-Whys technique is a simple but effective method of getting to the root cause of a problem. You start by describing the problem and then ask "Why did this happen?" Each response is then followed up by another "Why?" question. It often takes five questions to determine the root cause of a problem.fault isolationTo isolate a fault, it's usually necessary to replicate the events that led to the problem. You then investigate the Configuration Item (CI) at the start of the event, followed by each subsequent CI, until you find the fault. If the fault can't be recreated, you investigate the healthy state of each CI involved in the event.affinity mappingAffinity mapping is commonly done during brainstorming sessions with key support staff. Possible solutions are recorded on individual cards and then grouped according to similar characteristics. A "header" is assigned to each group for future identification and examined for a root cause.hypothesis testingWhen using hypothesis testing, a team generates a list of possible root causes based on educated guesses. It then determines which are true and which are false.technical observation postThe technical observation post enables specialist technical support staff from within the IT support organization to monitor events in real time, in order to catch problems as they occur, and potentially identify possible causes of the problem.Ishikawa diagram, andAn Ishikawa diagram is usually developed during a brainstorming session, during which a problem is discussed in order to increase understanding and identify the source of a problem. The main trunk of the diagram charts the problem. Possible causes are represented by the trunk's branches, and secondary factors are added as stems.Pareto analysisPareto analysis is a statistical method used to determine the most important, or frequently occurring, potential failures. It's based on the Pareto principle, or the 80-20 rule, which states that 80% of problems are caused by 20% of the causes.
You can use the Configuration Management System (CMS) to help diagnose the exact point of a failure.

You can also use the Known Error Database (KEDB) and problem-matching techniques, such as keyword searches, to establish if a problem has occurred before and to check for a predefined resolution.

You may want to re-create the failure in a test environment that mirrors the live environment to find out the cause of the problem and then to find the most appropriate and cost-effective resolution. A test environment enables you to investigate and diagnose the problem without causing further disruptions to users.

When the problem of offsite agents being unable to upload sales orders is investigated, logs reveal that similar incidents happened on two separate occasions. In both cases, the incidents were reported after the configuration of the same router was updated.

It's then established that the root cause is a corrupt line of code that was introduced during a router configuration update.

A viable solution to the problem then is to reconfigure the router to remove the faulty coding.

A workaround is a temporary method of overcoming the difficulties that a problem has introduced. Even if a workaround exists, it's important to continue working toward a permanent resolution. It's also important to document the details of a workaround and keep the problem record open.



Graphic

Workarounds is highlighted in the Problem Management process diagram.

Sometimes multiple workarounds exist, and each helps reduce the impact and urgency of a problem – with the result that its priority level may be reduced.

For example, it may be possible to establish a connection between offsite sales agents and a company server by reconfiguring a backup router. It may also be possible to let all agents fax their sales orders rather that submit electronically until the problem is resolved.

A known error is defined as a problem with a documented root cause and workaround.

A known error record should be opened, or raised, as soon as a problem has been diagnosed and a workaround has been found, if one exists. The record should then be entered in the KEDB for future reference.



Graphic

Raising known error if required is highlighted in the Problem Management process diagram.

Sometimes it's necessary to raise a known error record even before problem diagnosis is complete and a workaround is found. For example, this might be done for information purposes or to identify a root cause or workaround that appears to address a problem, but that hasn't been confirmed.

A known error record should
• identify the problem record to which it relates 
• document the status of actions being taken to resolve the problem 
• identify the root cause, and 
• document the workaround 



Question

The problem of interrupted service at a call center has been detected, logged, categorized, and prioritized.

What three steps of the Problem Management process typically occur next?

Options:
1.Use the KEDB to find the same configuration being used by another client who had the same problem
2.Implement a temporary solution while determining a permanent solution to the problem
3.Document the root cause and the solutions to the problem
4.Make a note of the time and date the incident occurred
5.Ask yourself "How long will it take to fix the problem?"

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The problem needs to be investigated and diagnosed for root causes and possible solutions. This is the fourth step. One way of doing so is to use KEDB to find previous occurrences and the way these were resolved.

Option 2: Correct. Before knowing the root cause of or the appropriate solution to a problem, a workaround may help reestablish the service temporarily. This is step five.

Option 3: Correct. As part of the sixth step, it's important to document a problem by raising a known error record and placing it in the KEDB. That way, future problems can be identified and the service restored quickly.

Option 4: Incorrect. The problem has already been logged as part of the second step.

Option 5: Incorrect. This is an example of the type of question you should ask yourself when prioritizing a problem in step four – but in this case, the problem has already been prioritized.

Correct answer(s):

1. Use the KEDB to find the same configuration being used by another client who had the same problem
2. Implement a temporary solution while determining a permanent solution to the problem
3. Document the root cause and the solutions to the problem

4. Resolve, close, review

Once a solution to a problem has been determined, it can be applied.

During this step, it's vital that safeguards are introduced to ensure the resolution doesn't create further difficulties. If any change in functionality is required, a Request for Change (RFC) – a formal proposal for a change – should be raised and authorized before the resolution is applied.



Graphic

Problem resolution is highlighted in the Problem Management process diagram.

If the problem is serious and an urgent fix is needed for business reasons, an emergency RFC should be raised. The resolution should be applied only once the change has been authorized and scheduled for release. In the meantime, the KEDB should be used to help resolve any further occurrences of the problems that may occur.

If the resolution to a problem can't be justified – for example, because its cost is too high – a decision may be taken to leave the problem record open and to rely on a workaround.

The priority of the problem may also then be reduced, based on the effect of the workaround.

In the case of sales agents who can't use a VPN to upload their sales orders, a resolution might be to install a dedicated router, to eliminate or reduce the introduction of errors in configuration updates. This would require an RFC because it involves a change to the network infrastructure.

If the organization decides not to install a dedicated router, any future router configuration updates should be amended to include testing the functionality of the sales submission software before it goes live.



Graphic

Problem resolution is highlighted in the Problem Management process diagram.

Once a final resolution has been applied, the problem record is checked to ensure it is fully updated. The problem record and any related incident records that are still open are then closed.

Also, the status of any related known error record is updated to show that the resolution has been applied.



Graphic

Problem closure is highlighted in the Problem Management process diagram.

As the final step in Performance Management, major problems – as defined based on an organization's priority system – should be reviewed so the organization can learn any lessons for the future.

The review should examine



Graphic

Major problem review is highlighted in the Problem Management process diagram.
• things that were done correctly 
• things that were done wrong 
• what could be done better in the future 
• how to prevent similar problems from recurring, and 
• whether there was any third-party responsibility for the problems and whether follow-up actions are needed 

The results of a major problem review should be used to
train staff and raise awarenessThe results of a major problem review should be used as part of training and awareness activities for support staff. Any lessons learned should be documented in appropriate procedures, work instructions, diagnostic scripts, or known error records. The problem manager should facilitate the session and document any agreed actions.provide input to proactive Problem Management, andThe results of a major problem review can help indicate potential causes of other problems, or of problems that may occur in the future.inform service review meetingsThe results should be incorporated into a service review meeting with the customer or user groups. This is done to ensure that the customer is aware of the actions taken and of the plans to prevent future major incidents from occurring. It helps to improve customer satisfaction and assure the business that Service Operation is handling major incidents responsibly and actively working to prevent their future recurrence.
The lesson learned from the router configuration update that resulted in sales agents not being able to upload their sales orders is to implement more thorough beta testing of router configuration updates, at least for systems and software that are deemed critical.



Question

What are examples of the final steps of the Problem Management process?

Options:
1.Reconfigure users to connect to the correct network location when they sign in
2.Check that the known error record contains a full historical description of all events, and then close the problem record
3.Make relevant IT support staff aware of the known error record
4.Log the problem with the IT unit and provide users with a rough estimate of when the service will be functioning again
5.Apply the workaround until a resolution is found

Answer

Option 1: Correct. After identifying a resolution and raising a known error, you can apply the resolution to a problem. This is step eight of the Problem Management process.

Option 2: Correct. The second-last step in the process is to confirm that all relevant information about a problem has been recorded and then to close the problem record.

Option 3: Correct. The final step in the process is to review major problems. The results can be used to raise awareness of problems and the steps for resolving them among IT support staff.

Option 4: Incorrect. Logging the problem isn't one of the final steps of the Problem Management process. This should occur as soon as the problem is detected.

Option 5: Incorrect. A workaround is usually a temporary measure for until a final resolution is found.

Correct answer(s):

1. Reconfigure users to connect to the correct network location when they sign in
2. Check that the known error record contains a full historical description of all events, and then close the problem record
3. Make relevant IT support staff aware of the known error record

5. Summary

The Problem Management process includes ten steps.

The first four steps are to detect, log, categorize, and then prioritize a problem.

The problem is then investigated and diagnosed for a root cause and possible solutions. Workarounds should be applied if these exist. The problem and its resolution are then documented in a known error record.

As the final three steps, the resolution to the problem is implemented, the problem record is closed, and major problems are reviewed.

Back to top
 

Managing Problems
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•identify the scope and principles of Problem Management
•identify the activities of the Problem Management process, given a scenario
 
1. Exercise overview

In this exercise, you're required to manage problems.

This involves the following tasks:
•identifying the scope of Problem Management
•recognizing the principles of effective Problem Management, and
•identifying Problem Management activities in a given scenario

2. Identifying scope

In the ITIL® Service Lifecycle, Problem Management is the process for managing all problems that arise in the various lifecycle stages. As a result, it has a wide scope.



Question

What activities are included in the scope of Problem Management?

Options:
1.Diagnosing root causes of incidents and their resolutions
2.Implementing resolutions through appropriate control procedures like Change Management
3.Documenting problem information and appropriate workarounds and resolutions
4.Conducting periodic scheduled reviews of operational logs and maintenance records
5.Conducting periodic scheduled reviews of problem records to indicate errors in the infrastructure
6.Conducting brainstorming sessions to identify infrastructure errors

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Problem Management processes help you identify and diagnose problems that are the root causes of incidents, and initiate actions for resolving the problems or minimizing their impact.

Option 2: Correct. Problem Management is responsible for resolving problems through the correct procedures such as filling out change requests to inform management of what's being done.

Option 3: Correct. Problem Management processes help maintain information about problems and their workarounds and resolutions. This can help reduce related incidents from happening.

Option 4: Correct. Periodic scheduled reviews are part of proactive Problem Management. Conducting these reviews helps to identify any patterns or trends in activities, and highlight any potential problems that may arise in the future.

Option 5: Incorrect. Problem Management processes ensure that periodic scheduled reviews of incident records are conducted. This helps find patterns and trends that may indicate errors in the infrastructure.

Option 6: Incorrect. Problem Management includes brainstorming sessions with management to try and identify any trends in order to try prevent any problems from happening.

Correct answer(s):

1. Diagnosing root causes of incidents and their resolutions
2. Implementing resolutions through appropriate control procedures like Change Management
3. Documenting problem information and appropriate workarounds and resolutions
4. Conducting periodic scheduled reviews of operational logs and maintenance records



Question

Which additional activities fall within the scope of Problem Management?

Options:
1.Identifying and addressing problems in response to incidents that occur
2.Addressing problems and known errors before they cause incidents
3.Supporting Continual Service Improvement (CSI) lifecycle activities by identifying and implementing service improvements
4.Using checklists to collect data on service or operational quality issues
5.Conducting random reviews of event logs to identify patterns and trends
6.Approving changes required to address problems

Answer

Option 1: Correct. This forms part of Problem Management's reactive aspects, where it sets about solving problems as they arise.

Option 2: Correct. Problem Management's scope includes a proactive process where it aims to stop problems before they happen. This process is continuous and improves end user satisfaction.

Option 3: Correct. Proactive Problem Management activities involve performing a trending analysis that helps to identify and enter service improvements into the CSI and manage improvement opportunities.

Option 4: Correct. With the help of Problem Management processes, data is collected on issues and are subsequently solved before they cause further disruptions in business.

Option 5: Incorrect. The reviews that are conducted during Problem Management are periodic and scheduled, which helps to notice patterns and trends of potential problems.

Option 6: Incorrect. Although Problem Management aims to implement problem resolutions, it has to ensure that any proposed changes are authorized through appropriate control procedures, via the Change Management and Release and Deployment Management processes.

Correct answer(s):

1. Identifying and addressing problems in response to incidents that occur
2. Addressing problems and known errors before they cause incidents
3. Supporting Continual Service Improvement (CSI) lifecycle activities by identifying and implementing service improvements
4. Using checklists to collect data on service or operational quality issues

3. Recognizing principles

Effective Problem Management depends on three main principles.



Question

What are principles for effective Problem Management?

Options:
1.Creating problem models that define how to address specific problems
2.Strictly distinguishing Problem Management from Incident Management
3.Deploying reactive and proactive Problem Management processes
4.Combining Problem Management with Incident Management
5.Using only reactive Problem Management processes
6.Creating problem models that define how to diagnose problems

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Problem Management helps to create problem models for specific problems. These models set out sequenced steps to follow to resolve problems. This makes it easier and quicker to resolve problems when they occur.

Option 2: Correct. Problem Management focuses on preventing incidents from happening, while Incident Management focuses on restoring services to their normal state after service disruptions occur.

Option 3: Correct. Problem Management uses both proactive and reactive processes. Proactive activities are triggered by activities that aim to improve services and prevent problems. Reactive activities are triggered by incidents that have already occurred and focus on finding and resolving the underlying causes of incidents.

Option 4: Incorrect. Problem Management and Incident Management are two separate processes. Problem Management specifically focuses on preventing incidents from happening, while Incident Management focuses on restoring services, after disruptions, to their normal state.

Option 5: Incorrect. Problem Management needs reactive and proactive processes so it not only resolves problems once they occur, but also prevents problems from occurring.

Option 6: Incorrect. Problem Management is involved in diagnosing problems. However, the main aim of creating problem models is to have predetermined steps at hand in order to resolve problems.

Correct answer(s):

1. Creating problem models that define how to address specific problems
2. Strictly distinguishing Problem Management from Incident Management
3. Deploying reactive and proactive Problem Management processes

4. Identifying activities

An IT service provider recently updated a database in a client's call center. However, the service desk is now receiving complaints from the client, saying that up to 10% of attempts to save caller information by customer service representatives (CSRs) are failing.



Question

Sequence the first four steps of the Problem Management process in order.

Options:
A.The service desk escalates the incident because it suspects an underlying problem
B.The service desk gathers previously reported incidents from incident records, and includes them in the problem record
C.The problem is labeled as "Service interruptions" by the IT unit
D.The interruptions are judged to be high in terms of impact and urgency

Answer

Correct answer(s):
The service desk escalates the incident because it suspects an underlying problem is ranked Problem detection is the first step in the Problem Management process. This occurs if, for example, one or more incidents indicate an underlying problem.The service desk gathers previously reported incidents from incident records, and includes them in the problem record is ranked Logging the details of the problem is the second step in the process. This ensures that the problem can be tracked and that an organization will have a historical record of it to refer to later.The problem is labeled as "Service interruptions" by the IT unit is ranked Categorizing a problem is the third step. This should be done in the same way as any related incident, based on its type. For example, a problem could relate to a service interruption or to slow performance.The interruptions are judged to be high in terms of impact and urgency is ranked Prioritizing the problem is the fourth step in the process and is based on its urgency and potential impact on the business.


Question

The problem of interrupted service at a call center has been detected, logged, categorized, and prioritized.

Sequence the next three steps of the Problem Management process in order.

Options:
A.The Known Error Database (KEDB) is used to find the configuration that's also being used by another client with the same problem
B.Reboot the network server while trying to search for possible root causes
C.The root cause and solutions to the problem is documented

Answer

Correct answer(s):
The Known Error Database (KEDB) is used to find the configuration that's also being used by another client with the same problem is ranked Problem investigation and diagnosis is the fifth step in the Problem Management process. The root causes and possible solutions need to be found, and using the KEDB to find previous occurrences of the problem and how it was resolved is a way of doing this.Reboot the network server while trying to search for possible root causes is ranked Implementing a problem workaround, like rebooting the network server, is the sixth step in the process. This may help to reestablish the service on a temporary basis, while the root cause or appropriate solution to the problem is found.The root cause and solutions to the problem is documented is ranked Raising a known error record is the seventh step in the process. Documenting a problem and placing it in the KEDB is important because similar future problems can then be identified and resolved faster.


Question

Sequence the final steps of the Problem Management process.

Options:
A.Reconfigure users to connect to the correct network location when they sign in
B.Check that the known error record for a full historical description of events and close the problem record
C.Make IT support staff aware of the known error record

Answer

Correct answer(s):
Reconfigure users to connect to the correct network location when they sign in is ranked Problem resolution is the eighth step. This step can only be done after identifying a resolution and raising a known error.Check that the known error record for a full historical description of events and close the problem record is ranked The ninth step in the process is to confirm that all the relevant information about a problem has been recorded and then to close the problem record.Make IT support staff aware of the known error record is ranked The tenth and final step in the process is to review major problems. The results gathered can be used to raise awareness of problems and the steps for how to resolve them among IT support staff can be made available.
The scope and principles of Problem Management have been recognized, and Problem Management activities in a given scenario have been identified.

Back to top
 

Problem Management Interfaces
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•describe how Problem Management interfaces with other service lifecycle processes
 
1. Problem Management and other processes

The Problem Management process is responsible for dealing with all problems that may occur in the ITIL® Service Lifecycle stages. To do this effectively, it has to interface with various processes in each of the lifecycle stages.



Graphic

The ITIL® Service Lifecycle contains the Service Strategy, Service, Design, Service Transition, Service Operation, and Continual Service Improvement stages.

In the Service Strategy stage, Problem Management interfaces with the Financial Management for IT services process. Problem Management provides information that supports Financial Management because it assists in assessing the impact – including the financial impact – of proposed workarounds and solutions.

So Problem Management can provide Financial Management for IT services with information about the costs of resolving and preventing problems. This information can then be used as input into budgeting and accounting systems, and in Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) calculations.

In turn, Financial Management for IT services may provide Problem Management with useful information, including the results of pain value analysis. This type of analysis identifies the areas of the IT infrastructure in which problems and incidents could have the most severe impact on the business.



Graphic

A column chart entitled Pain value analysis displays. The X-axis is labeled Infrastructure category (incident category). The columns that display are labeled Hubs, Switches, Routers, Analog telephones, VOIPs, VPNs, and Cell phones. The Y-axis is labeled Pain value and displays values from 0 to 6,000 in increments of 1,000. The threshold is set at just below 3,000. Columns that exceed the threshold are those for routers, VOIPs, and cell phones.

Problem Management interacts with four Service Design processes:
Availability ManagementAvailability Management helps determine how to maximize the availability of IT services – or to ensure that the availability levels defined in Service Level Agreements (SLAs) are provided. Problem Management supports this process by providing information about problems that may reduce availability, and by resolving these problems or generating appropriate methods for working around them.Capacity ManagementSome problems, like those involving performance issues, may require investigation by Capacity Management teams. Both Capacity Management and Problem Management may cooperate to diagnose and resolve these problems. Capacity Management also plays a role in taking proactive measures to prevent problems from occurring.

During capacity planning, Problem Management may provide information that affects capacity-related decisions. For example, it may identify problems that could be solved by increasing an organization's hardware or bandwidth capacity.IT Service Continuity Management, andProblem Management acts as an entry point into IT Service Continuity Management in situations where a significant problem isn't resolved before it starts to have a major impact on business.

For example, a router that supports a key business process is faulty but the manufacturer can't deliver a replacement for a few days. Problem Management would interface with IT Service Continuity Management so a temporary process or fix can be implemented, to ensure service continues with as little interruption or loss as possible to users and customers.Service Level Management (SLM)Problem Management contributes to improvements in the service levels that are agreed and monitored through the SLM process. The information it provides may also determine the Service Level Agreement (SLA) review components used by SLM.

In turn, SLM provides the parameters that Problem Management works within by defining service level targets.

SLM also reviews service levels, potentially helping identify problems that should be resolved through Problem Management.
Problem Management interfaces with various processes in the Service Transition stage. One of the most important of these is Change Management.

Problem Management is responsible for ensuring that any changes to Configuration Items (CIs) that are needed to resolve problems are submitted to Change Management for approval, in the form of Requests for Changes (RFCs).

Change Management processes help to monitor the progress of these changes. The outcomes are then filtered into Problem Management processes which are responsible for correcting all failed changes.

Problem Management also interfaces with the Service Asset and Configuration Management (SACM) process in the Service Transition stage.

Problem Management uses the Configuration Management System (CMS) that's set up and maintained through SACM to identify faulty CIs and to determine the impacts of problems and resolutions.

Problem Management also interacts with Knowledge Management – another process in the Service Transition stage. It uses the Service Knowledge Management System (SKMS) as the basis of the Known Error Database (KEDB), which can hold or integrate with problem records.

A final Service Transition process that interacts with Problem Management is Release and Deployment Management, which is responsible for deploying problem fixes into the live environment.

This process also helps ensure that the associated known errors are transferred from the development KEDB into the live KEDB.

In turn, Problem Management helps to resolve any problems that are caused by faults during the Release and Deployment Management process.

Problem Management also interfaces with the Continual Service Improvement (CSI) lifecycle stage.

The occurrence of incidents and problems provides a basis for identifying opportunities for service improvement and adding them to the CSI register.

Proactive Problem Management activities may also identify underlying problems and service issues that, if addressed, can contribute to increases in service quality and end user or customer satisfaction.



Question

How does Problem Management interface with other Service Lifecycle processes?

Options:
1.Provides Financial Management of IT services with information about the costs of resolving problems
2.Assesses proactive measures to problems that Capacity Management investigates
3.Uses the service asset and CMS to identify faulty CIs and determine problem resolutions
4.Identifies service improvement opportunities and adds them to the CSI register
5.Provides Financial Management with budgeting and accounting systems
6.Provides SLM with parameters to work within

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Problem Management interacts with Financial Management for IT services, providing it with information about the costs of solving and preventing problems. This information can then be incorporated in budgeting and accounting systems.

Option 2: Correct. Problem Management can provide Capacity Management with information about capacity changes required to overcome problems. Capacity Management may also contribute to solving particular problems.

Option 3: Correct. Problem Management uses the CMS maintained through the SACM process to help identify problems and the impact of possible resolutions.

Option 4: Correct. By identifying problems, Problem Management helps identify opportunities for CSI. It also improves service levels by resolving problems.

Option 5: Incorrect. Problem Management focuses on identifying, diagnosing, and resolving IT problems. Although it interacts with Financial Management processes, it doesn't provide financial systems.

Option 6: Incorrect. SLM sets parameters for Problem Management to work within by defining service level targets.

Correct answer(s):

1. Provides Financial Management of IT services with information about the costs of resolving problems
2. Assesses proactive measures to problems that Capacity Management investigates
3. Uses the service asset and CMS to identify faulty CIs and determine problem resolutions
4. Identifies service improvement opportunities and adds them to the CSI register

2. Summary

Problem Management interfaces with the Financial Management for IT services process in the Service Strategy stage and with four processes in the Service Design stage – Availability Management, Capacity Management, IT Service Continuity Management, and SLM. It interfaces with Change Management, SACM, Knowledge Management, and Release and Deployment Management in the Service Transition stage. It also interfaces with the CSI stage.

Back to top
 

Event, Request, and Access Management
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•identify the scopes of Event Management, Request Fulfillment, and Access Management
 
1. Introducing Service Operation processes

In addition to Incident Management and Problem Management, three other processes occur during the Service Operation stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle.



Graphic

The ITIL® Service Lifecycle contains the Service Strategy, Service, Design, Service Transition, Service Operation, and Continual Service Improvement stages.

These processes are
Event ManagementAn event is any change of state that has significance for the management of a Configuration Item (CI) or IT service. The purpose of Event Management is to manage events throughout their lifecycles. Associated activities include detecting events, making sense of them, and determining and coordinating the appropriate control actions.Request Fulfillment, andA service request is any request or demand that a user makes to an IT organization. Many of these requests are for common or minor actions involving low risk and low costs, or for simple information. Request Fulfillment is the process responsible for managing the lifecycles of all service requests.Access ManagementAccess Management is the process of granting specific authorized users the rights to use services, while also preventing unauthorized users from gaining access to them. It involves executing the policies and actions defined through Information Security Management.
2. Event Management

Event Management is focused on generating and detecting meaningful notifications about the status of an organization's IT infrastructure and services.

It's also the basis for operational monitoring and control. If events are programmed to communicate operational information, warnings, and exceptions to the IT Department, they can be used as a basis for automating many routine operations and management activities.

Examples are executing scripts on remote devices, submitting jobs for processing, or dynamically balancing the demand for a service across multiple devices to enhance performance.

The objectives of the Event Management process are to
• detect all changes of state that have significance for the management of a CI or IT service 
• determine the appropriate control action for events and ensure these are communicated to the appropriate functions 
• provide the trigger, or entry point, for the execution of many Service Operation processes and operations management activities 
• provide the means to compare actual operating performance and behavior against design standards and Service Level Agreements (SLAs), and 
• provide a basis for service assurance and reporting, and service improvement 

Event Management can be applied to any aspect of IT Service Management that needs to be controlled and that can be automated. This includes events associated with
CIsSome CIs may be included in the scope of Event Management because they need to stay in a constant state. For example, a switch on a network may need to stay on. Tools may confirm that the switch does stay on by monitoring responses to pings.

Other CIs may be included because their status needs to change frequently and Event Management can be used to automate this process – for example, using a script to perform routine updates to a file server.environmental conditionsEnvironmental conditions ranging from temperature fluctuations to natural disasters like earthquakes can generate events, and these fall within the scope of Event Management.

For example, Event Management may include responding to alerts indicating that the controls for regulating temperature in a server room have failed.software licensingSoftware licence monitoring – to ensure optimum and legal use of software licenses – falls within the scope of Event Management.

For example, an event monitoring system may raise alerts when the licenses on specific software is about to expire.security, andSecurity events fall within the scope of the Event Management process. For example, Event Management software installed on a LAN may raise an alert if any unauthorized attempt at network access is detected.normal IT activityNormal IT activity often falls within the scope of Event Management. For example, Event Management may involve using software to track the use of a particular application or the performance of a server.
3. Request Fulfillment

Request Fulfillment plays an important role in maintaining end user satisfaction by ensuring that users' requests are satisfied as promptly and efficiently as possible.

To ensure common types of requests are fulfilled within a reasonable time, it's important to have documented processes in place for handling these requests.

This prevents minor requests from congesting the normal Incident Management and Change Management processes, and negatively impacting overall service delivery.

The objectives of the Request Fulfillment process are to
• maintain user and customer satisfaction through efficient and professional handling of all service requests 
• provide a channel for users to request and receive standard services for which a predefined authorization and qualification process exists 
• provide information to users and customers about the availability of services and the procedure for obtaining them 
• source and deliver the components of requested standard services, and 
• assist users by providing general information and handling complaints 

The process needed to fulfill a request will vary depending on the request, but it can usually be broken down into a set of activities.

For each type of request, these activities should be documented in a request model.

For example, think of a manager who requires reminders of login details for a rarely used work e-mail account and approaches the IT Department with a request.

In the manager's organization, a dedicated IT team follows the model that lists the appropriate Request Fulfillment steps. These involve identifying the request, consulting the appropriate expert, and finally fulfilling the request.

The team then logs the request and liaises with network administrative staff to recover the forgotten login details. The team then communicates the information to the manager.

The Request Fulfillment process is handled differently in different organizations. For example, service requests may be treated as
a separate work streamIn an organization that deals with varied requests that may require specialist knowledge, service requests may be dealt with as a separate work stream. This is essential if a requests and incidents are handled by different groups of employees. In the example of the manager requesting login details, the separate work stream is a dedicated IT team that fulfills the request.incidents, orSome organizations handle service requests through the Incident Management process. Service requests are then handled as a particular type of planned incident – unlike regular incidents, which are unplanned.the responsibility of an expanded service deskIn some organizations, an expanded service desk handles all employees' service requests. For example, this type of service desk may handle requests to service a photocopier or even requests associated with building management issues, such as replacing a light fitting or repairing a leak in the plumbing.
4. Access Management

The purpose of Access Management is to grant specific users rights to use specific services. Some organizations may refer to this process as Rights Management or Identity Management.

The objectives of the Access Management process are to
• manage access to services based on policies and actions defined in Information Security Management 
• respond efficiently and appropriately to requests for granting access to services, changing access rights, or restricting access, and 
• oversee access to services and ensure that the assigned rights are properly used 

The Access Management process executes the policies defined through Information Security Management. For example, it may implement a policy that allows only specified managers in a Human Resources Department to access a payroll application.

By implementing information security measures, Access Management enables an organization to manage the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of its data, including intellectual property.

Although Access Management ensures that users are given the appropriate rights to use a service, it's Availability Management that ensures that this access is available at all agreed times.

Access Management is usually included in all technical and application management functions. However, it's usually coordinated through a single control point – such as IT operations management or a service desk.

A service request may initiate Access Management – for example, if an employee requests rights to specific information or services on an office network.



Question

What examples fall within the scopes of Event Management, Request Fulfillment, and Access Management?

Options:
1.Configuring an application to raise a security alert in response to any unauthorized attempt to access a network
2.Setting up a specific network drive to store work-in-progress graphic files
3.Repairing a server's damaged power supply that caused an office network to crash
4.Setting up an office LAN to only allow senior managers access to the network drive containing employee records
5.Deleting a suspicious e-mail to prevent possible virus infection

Answer

Option 1: Correct. An event is any change that has significance for an IT service, so a security alert being generated would fall within the scope of Event Management.

Option 2: Correct. Any request to the IT service desk constitutes a service request. A request for extra hard drive space on a network would fall within the scope of service Request Fulfillment.

Option 3: Incorrect. A power surge that interrupts IT services would be classed as an incident and be dealt with by the Incident Management process.

Option 4: Correct. A policy that grants only specific users access to information or a service falls within the scope of Access Management.

Option 5: Incorrect. Something that has the potential to cause interrupted IT service is usually classed as an incident and falls within the scope of Incident Management.

Correct answer(s):

1. Configuring an application to raise a security alert in response to any unauthorized attempt to access a network
2. Setting up a specific network drive to store work-in-progress graphic files
4. Setting up an office LAN to only allow senior managers access to the network drive containing employee records

5. Summary

Event Management, Request Fulfillment, and Access Management are processes found in the Service Operation stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle. 

Event Management seeks to manage events through their lifecycle, including CIs, environmental conditions, software licence monitoring, security, and normal IT activity. 

Request Fulfillment covers all user service requests to the IT Department, and aims to maintain user satisfaction by delivering services and information.

Access Management provides selective rights to information and services to specific users within an organizational context.

Back to top
 

© 2017 Skillsoft Ireland Limited
  
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
 
Print 

Course Transcript
 

ITIL® 2011 Edition Foundation: Continual Service Improvement
  

Introduction to Continual Service Improvement

1. CSI Scope

2. The CSI Register

3. Introduction to The CSI Process

4. The CSI Seven-step Improvement Process

5. Recognizing the Seven Steps to Improvement
   

CSI Scope
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•identify the benefits to a business of adopting and implementing standard and consistent approaches for CSI
•identify key considerations for implementing CSI
 
1. Considerations for implementing CSI

According to ITIL®, Continual Service Improvement (CSI) is the stage of the Service Lifecycle that involves identifying and implementing improvements to IT services that support business processes. In this way, it helps ensure that IT services are aligned with ever-changing business needs.



Graphic

A diagram representing the ITIL® Service Lifecycle shows the Service Design, Service Operation, and Service Transition stages surrounding Service Strategy. Continual Service Improvement is a final layer, encompassing all of the other stages.

CSI draws on principles, practices, and methods from processes like Quality Management, Change Management, and Capacity Management, combining these to improve performance throughout all the stages of the Service Lifecycle.

Throughout the CSI stage, the performance of an IT service provider is continually measured and improvements are made to processes, IT services, and IT infrastructure where necessary. This can result in improved IT service quality, operational efficiency, and better cost efficiency.

CSI has several objectives:
• review, analyze, prioritize, and make recommendations for improvements in the lifecycle stages 
• review and analyze service level achievements 
• identify and implement activities to improve IT service quality 
• improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the processes that enable the provision of IT services 
• improve cost effectiveness of IT services without negatively impacting customer satisfaction 
• ensure that appropriate quality management methods are used to support improvement activities, and 
• ensure that processes have clearly defined objectives and that progress toward achieving these can be measured 

The CSI stage should use a "closed loop" feedback system that's based on the Deming cycle.



Graphic

The Deming cyle represents the plan, do, check, and act cycle. It shows continual quality control and consolidation. The vertical axis is labeled Maturity level, and the horizontal axis is labeled Timescale. There is a line increasing in Maturity level and Timescale showing Business and IT alignment. There is an arrow near the start of the line showing consolidation  Above this, sits a cycle that begins with plan, at the top right, then going clockwise, do, check and act. Examples of a "plan" would be a project plan, "do" would be a project, "check" would be an audit, and "act" would be new actions.

Through this feedback system, the output or feedback from any stage in the Service Lifecycle can be used to identify improvement opportunities for any other stage. For example, outputs from the Problem Management process – which is part of the Service Operation stage – may point to the need for an improvement in the Service Design or Service Transition stages.

All CSI initiatives should have clearly defined goals and objectives.

You should also ensure that the success of each service improvement initiative can be properly measured in terms of its success or failure in meeting the specified goals.

These steps help ensure that resources aren't wasted on improvement initiatives that aren't really needed. This approach also makes it possible to quantify the results of any improvement efforts.

Another important consideration when implementing CSI is that it's critical to understand what to measure and why, as well as what the successful outcome of an improvement initiative should be.

Without this understanding, the conclusions you reach about what improvements are needed, and about the success or failure of these improvements once they've been implemented, may be invalid.



Question

What are key considerations when implementing CSI?

Options:
1.Service improvements should have clearly defined goals
2.A closed-loop feedback system should be used
3.Output from any stage should be able to identify improvement opportunities for any other stage.
4.It's vital to know what to measure and why
5.It should align business processes based on available services
6.It should ensure that IT services are delivered on time to the customer

Answer

Option 1: Correct. CSI ensures that service improvements are implemented, managed, and supported using clearly defined goals, objectives, and measurements.

Option 2: Correct. CSI should use a closed-loop feedback system similar to the Deming cycle.

Option 3: Correct. CSI should ensure that output from any stage in the Service Lifecycle can alert an organization to the need for an improvement in any other stage.

Option 4: Correct. Effective CSI depends on knowing what to measure to gauge the success of improvement initiatives, and why. Otherwise the conclusions reached about improvement efforts may be invalid.

Option 5: Incorrect. An objective of CSI is to align IT services with the business needs of service users, by identifying and implementing service improvements that support business processes.

Option 6: Incorrect. CSI measures service delivery and implements measures for improving it. However, it doesn't manage actual delivery.

Correct answer(s):

1. Service improvements should have clearly defined goals
2. A closed-loop feedback system should be used
3. Output from any stage should be able to identify improvement opportunities for any other stage.
4. It's vital to know what to measure and why

2. Benefits of CSI 

CSI provides best-practice guidance in four main areas.

First it provides guidance on the overall health of IT Service Management as a discipline.

It also provides continual alignment of the IT Service Portfolio with service users' current and future business needs.

CSI also provides guidance for the maturity and capability of the IT service provider and its supporting management, processes, and people.

Last it provides guidance for the continual improvement of all aspects of IT services and the service assets that support them.

CSI depends on ten supporting activities. The first five activities include
• reviewing management information and trends to ensure that IT services are meeting the agreed service levels 
• reviewing management information and trends to ensure that the output of the enabling processes are achieving the desired results 
• conducting maturity assessments to demonstrate areas for improvement, as well as areas of concern 
• conducting internal audits to verify employee and process compliance, and 
• reviewing existing deliverables for appropriateness 

The remaining five supporting activities include
• proposing recommendations for improvement opportunities 
• conducting customer satisfaction surveys 
• reviewing business trends and changed priorities to keep ahead of business projections 
• conducting external and internal service reviews to identify CSI opportunities, and 
• measuring and identifying the value created by CSI improvements 

Individuals within the organization must own these supporting activities. These individuals should be empowered and have the authority to ensure that the activities are scheduled, planned, and conducted when they are deemed necessary.

CSI deliverables should be reviewed on an ongoing basis. This is done to verify their completeness, functionality, and feasibility, and to ensure that they remain current and relevant, and do not become outdated and unusable.

Similarly, the organization needs to monitor its quality indicators and measurements to ensure that it's capable of identifying potential improvement opportunities.

Because any improvement initiative will more than likely necessitate changes, specific improvements will need to follow the defined Change Management process.

For an organization, adopting and implementing standard and consistent approaches for CSI has several benefits:
• it leads to continual improvements in service quality and customer satisfaction 
• it ensures that IT services are aligned with business needs 
• it increases the cost effectiveness of service provisioning by reducing costs or enabling an organization to handle more work at the same cost 
• it uses monitoring and reporting to identify potential opportunities for improvement in all lifecycle stages, and 
• it identifies opportunities for improvements in an organization's structure, resourcing capabilities, partners, technology, staff skills and training, and communications 



Question

What are the benefits of CSI?

Options:
1.It enables continual service quality improvement
2.It ensures that IT services are always aligned with the business requirements
3.It improves cost effectiveness
4.It helps to identify opportunities for improvement in all lifecycle stages
5.It provides a formal and universal standard for auditing Service Management capabilities
6.It identifies opportunities for organizational improvements
7.It provides information about the costs and benefits of IT services to a customer

Answer

Option 1: Correct. CSI enables an organization to make ongoing improvements to its services, resulting in increased customer satisfaction.

Option 2: Correct. CSI helps ensure that an IT service provider's Service Portfolio is aligned with the business needs of service users and customers.

Option 3: Correct. CSI can increase the cost effectiveness of services by reducing costs or by enabling a service provider to handle more work at the same cost.

Option 4: Correct. CSI enables the organization to use monitoring and reporting to identify potential opportunities for improvement in all stages of the Service Lifecycle.

Option 5: Incorrect. The focus of CSI is on identifying and implementing service improvements, not on auditing Service Management processes.

Option 6: Correct. CSI enables an organization to identify opportunities for improvements in its structure, resourcing capabilities, partners, technology, staff skills and training, and communications.

Option 7: Incorrect. CSI doesn't identify service costs or benefits for customers. Generally, a cost benefit analysis will do that. If adopted consistently, CSI can continually improve processes, IT services, and IT infrastructure and so increase efficiency and effectiveness.

Correct answer(s):

1. It enables continual service quality improvement
2. It ensures that IT services are always aligned with the business requirements
3. It improves cost effectiveness
4. It helps to identify opportunities for improvement in all lifecycle stages
6. It identifies opportunities for organizational improvements

3. Summary

The CSI stage of the Service Lifecycle identifies and implements continual improvements to IT services that support business processes. In this way, it helps ensure that IT services remain aligned with changing business needs. Considerations for implementing CSI include using a closed-feedback loop based on the Deming cycle, ensuring that all service improvement initiatives have clearly defined goals, and understanding what to measure and why to determine the success of improvement initiatives.

For organizations, benefits of adopting consistent, standardized CSI processes include continual improvements in service quality, alignment of IT services with business requirements, increased cost effectiveness, and identification of opportunities for improvement across all lifecycle stages and processes. CSI can also help organizations identify opportunities for improvements in their structure, resourcing capabilities, partners, technology, staff skills and training, and communications.

Back to top
 

The CSI Register
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize typical information that should be included in a CSI register
•identify key considerations for using the CSI register
 
1. Purpose and benefits of the CSI register

IT service providers may identify ways to improve their service quality and delivery based on their own investigations, or in response to customers and users complaining about problems or requesting improvements.

An important activity in the Continual Service Improvement (CSI) stage of the Service Lifecycle is recording all improvement opportunities and their details in a CSI register.

A CSI register is a database or structured document used to record and manage improvement opportunities throughout their lifecycles.



Graphic

A diagram representing the ITIL® Service Lifecycle shows the Service Design, Service Operation, and Service Transition stages surrounding Service Strategy. Continual Service Improvement is a final layer, encompassing all of the other stages.

The CSI register serves four main purposes:
it is a tool to record all improvement opportunitiesA CSI register makes it possible to track all service improvement opportunities and associated initiatives throughout their lifecycles. So it provides CSI with a structured approach for recording, monitoring, and reviewing service improvement efforts across an organization and its various divisions.it is a tool to categorize improvement opportunitiesA CSI register allows for categorization of all service improvement opportunities in terms of their scale, based on how much effort they'll require to implement. It also categorizes improvement opportunities based on whether they require responses over the short, medium, or long term. This helps make it clear how best to prioritize improvement initiatives and allocate resources.

When necessary, the priority of a particular improvement opportunity may be changed – for example, if Problem Management makes it clear that an improvement is needed to address a problem that's significantly affecting service delivery.it is a tool to catalog the benefits that can be achieved by implementing improvement initiatives, andPart of what a CSI register records is the potential benefits associated with implementing each proposed service improvement or initiative. So it makes it clear what the goals of improvement initiatives are. The progress of initiatives in providing the specified benefits can then be measured and quantified.it provides a coordinated, consistent view of all improvement activitiesOver a given period, an organization may need to respond to a potentially large number of improvement opportunities – and these may relate to different services, departments, and business areas. Using a CSI register makes it possible to track and assess all improvement opportunities so that improvement efforts can be coordinated and resources can be allocated appropriately.
Ideally a dedicated CSI manager should be responsible for the production and maintenance of a CSI register. This helps ensure that a consistent approach is used and that the need to update the register isn't overlooked.



Question

What is the purpose of a CSI register?

Options:
1.To record all improvement opportunities
2.To categorize improvement opportunities
3.To catalog the benefits that improvement initiatives should provide
4.To provide a coordinated and consistent view of an organization's improvement activities
5.To raise the priorities of specific improvement initiatives automatically
6.To ensure that all production and maintenance staff participate in recording improvement opportunities 

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The CSI register is used to record details of all identified service improvement opportunities across an organization. So it makes it possible to track, coordinate, assess, and quantify an organization's overall improvement efforts.

Option 2: Correct. The CSI register is used to categorize service improvement opportunities based on their scale, or size, as well as on whether they apply over the short, medium, or long term. This makes it easier to prioritize improvement initiatives and to allocate resources.

Option 3: Correct. The CSI register is used to record the benefits that each service improvement initiative is intended to provide. This makes it possible to measure and quantify the success of each initiative.

Option 4: Correct. A CSI register is used to record the details of an organization's service improvement initiatives. This makes it possible to coordinate improvement efforts and assess efforts in different areas using a consistent approach.

Option 5: Incorrect. Individual staff members have to raise the priorities of improvement initiatives. This doesn't occur automatically.

Option 6: Incorrect. A dedicated CSI manager should handle the production and maintenance of the CSI register to ensure a consistent approach.

Correct answer(s):

1. To record all improvement opportunities
2. To categorize improvement opportunities
3. To catalog the benefits that improvement initiatives should provide
4. To provide a coordinated and consistent view of an organization's improvement activities

The CSI register contains important information for service providers and so should be regarded as part of an organization's overall Service Knowledge Management System (SKMS).

The SKMS is the set of tools and databases that an IT service provider uses to manage the knowledge, information, and data required to manage the full lifecycle of all IT services.

Like other components of the SKMS, such as the Configuration Management System (CMS), the CSI register should be properly updated and maintained.

Another best practice is to ensure that for each recorded improvement initiative, suitable Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) are also identified in the CSI register. These are metrics for measuring whether an initiative is providing the desired key benefits.

For example, a KPI for an initiative that involves increasing the total bandwidth available to network users might be the average speed of data transmission on the network. The KPI provides a concrete and objective way to gauge the success or failure of the initiative.

The use of KPIs can help improve and quantify the overall performance of CSI.

A final best practice is to define the interface between the CSI register and other processes in the Service Lifecycle. The information recorded in the register should inform processes in other lifecycle stages.



Graphic

The CSI register interfaces with Change Management, Problem Management, and Capacity Management.

Similarly, the outputs of processes like Change Management, Problem Management, and Capacity Management should trigger the entry of new improvement opportunities in the register when it makes sense.

The results of service reviews are also likely to result in improvement requirements that should be recorded in the CSI register.

ITIL® doesn't provide strict rules about how the CSI register should be formatted or about exactly what information it should include.

Instead, each organization should evaluate its own requirements and create a CSI register that suits its own purposes.



Question

What are best practices for using a CSI register?

Options:
1.Treat it as part of the SKMS
2.Use it to record suitable KPIs for each improvement opportunity
3.Define the interfaces between the CSI register and other processes
4.Ensure that the CSI register reflects and influences only CSI activities
5.Format the CSI register using ITIL® guidelines

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The CSI register contains important information for an IT service provider and so should be treated as part of the organization's overall SKMS. It's important to update and maintain it properly.

Option 2: Correct. The CSI register should identify appropriate KPIs to measuring the success of each improvement initiative in meeting specified objectives. This is so that progress can be quantified and tracked.

Option 3: Correct. It's important to ensure that information recorded in the register informs processes in other lifecycle stages. Similarly, the outputs of processes like Problem Management, Capacity Management, and Change Management should lead to the identification of new improvement opportunities.

Option 4: Incorrect. The outcomes of processes like Problem Management, Capacity Management, and Change Management should trigger the entry of new improvement opportunities in the register. Entries in the register should also influence other processes.

Option 5: Incorrect. ITIL® doesn't specify exactly how to format the CSI register. Instead, each organization should evaluate its own needs and create a CSI register that suits its purposes.

Correct answer(s):

1. Treat it as part of the SKMS
2. Use it to record suitable KPIs for each improvement opportunity
3. Define the interfaces between the CSI register and other processes

2. Information in the CSI register

A CSI register typically takes an electronic format. For example, it may be a database or a spreadsheet. However, smaller organizations may keep a paper register.

Although each organization should determine the layout and format of the CSI register it uses, certain types of information should generally be included.
Opportunity numberThe opportunity number is a reference number that's assigned to an entry in the CSI register. Ideally it should identify the order of records in the register based on when they were entered.
For example, improvement opportunities may simply be numbered chronologically, starting with 1. 
Date raisedThe date raised is the date when an improvement opportunity or initiative was first entered in the CSI register. Alternatively, it may indicate when the issue requiring improvement was first identified.
The date raised in this example is January 4. 
SizeThe size refers to the scale of a needed improvement or initiative, based on how much work and effort it will require. Generally, an entry in the register is categorized just as small, medium, or large.
The size in this example is small. 
TimescaleIn a timescale field, you record the estimated time it will take to complete an improvement or initiative, or to resolve a specified issue. Often an improvement initiative is categorized simply as being of short-, medium-, or long-term duration.
The timescale in this example is short. 

The CSI register should include a description of each improvement opportunity or issue and, when possible, of its likely causes.



Graphic

As an example, the description entered for a particular improvement opportunity is "A number of failures have occurred when implementing new or updated applications. This has been caused by the testing procedure in release and deployment using out-of-date test data. The requirement is to update the test data in repository test 4371."

Information derived from Change Management, Problem Management, or Capacity Management may also be mentioned here to indicate which processes are required or are involved in the issue.

A priority field should indicate how urgently an improvement is required to be implemented. For example, using a code from 1 to 4, with 1 indicating urgent and 4 indicating the lowest priority. This helps ensure that the most serious issues are recognized and dealt with first, given limits on available resources.

A KPI metric field should list one or more appropriate KPIs for measuring the success of each improvement initiative.



Graphic

As an example, the KPI for the issue involving failures when updated or new applications are implemented is the n percent reduction in failures.

It's also useful to provide a Justification field for explaining the choice of a particular KPI metric – or for justifying the need for a particular improvement initiative based on the benefits it will have.



Graphic

For the issue involving failures when updated or new applications are implemented, the justification for an improvement is listed as "Significant reduction in failures after transition and resulting business impact."

Three further fields are useful to include in the CSI register.
Raised byIt's useful to record the name of the person who first raised the improvement initiative. For example, this might be an employee who discovered a way a system could function better.
In this example, E. King raised the improvement initiative. 
To be actioned byIt's important to specify who's responsible for ensuring that each improvement is implemented, to ensure that needed improvements aren't overlooked or put aside.
In this example, R. Bergman will be responsible for the implementation of the improvement initiative. 
Date required byWhen relevant, a CSI register should record the date by which an improvement must be completed, implemented, or an issue fully resolved.
The date required by, in this example, is January 14. 



Question

Match the CSI register fields to descriptions of what they're used to record.

Options:
A.KPI metric
B.Priority
C.Raised by 
D.Size
E.Timescale
F.Opportunity number

Targets:
1.The statistic or value used to measure the efficacy of an improvement initiative
2.A word or code identifying the relative urgency of each improvement or initiative
3.The person who first identified the improvement initiative
4.The extent of the work or effort required to implement an improvement
5.The length of time it will take to implement each improvement
6.A number assigned to an issue depending on when it got entered into the register

Answer

The CSI register should record one or more appropriate KPI metrics for each listed improvement opportunity. The metrics will then be used to measure the success of the improvements.

The Priority field indicates how urgent each recorded improvement is. For example, it may use a code between 1 and 4 to do this, with 1 indicating high priority and 4 indicating low priority.

The Raised by field should identify the person who originally identified the issue that requires improvement. This may or may not be the same as the person who first records the issue in the register.

The Size field indicates the scale, or extent, of a required improvement, based on how much work it will require.

The Timescale field may indicate the likely duration of an improvement initiative. For example, an improvement may have to occur over the short, medium, or long term.

The Opportunity number field is used to log every issue that gets entered into the register. The first issue in a CSI register is assigned the number 1.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

Target 5 = Option E

Target 6 = Option F



Question

Match the remaining CSI register fields to descriptions of what they record.

Options:
A.Date raised 
B.Description
C.Justification
D.To be actioned by
E.Date required by

Targets:
1.When an improvement initiative was noted and entered in the register
2.Details of the improvement initiative
3.The benefits of implementing each improvement
4.The person responsible for each improvement
5.The deadline for implementing the improvement

Answer

It's useful to record the date when an improvement opportunity is first raised so you can track the time taken to address it.

The CSI register should provide a description of each improvement opportunity, including the nature of any issues it addresses and, if warranted, the underlying causes of any issues.

To justify the need for improvements, you may record the benefits they'll bring once implemented.

It's important to assign someone to ensure that each improvement is implemented and properly tracked. You should also identify this person in the CSI register.

The Date required by field may be used to specify the date by which each improvement should be implemented.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

Target 5 = Option E

3. Summary

A CSI register is a tool that you can use to record and categorize all improvement opportunities across an organization. It provides a consistent view of these opportunities and let's you catalog the benefits associated with implementing them. The CSI register should be regarded as part of an organization's overall SKMS. It should identify appropriate KPIs for measuring the success of improvement initiatives, and it should provide a defined interface between CSI and other processes and strategic initiatives.

Fields commonly included in a CSI register include the opportunity number, date raised, size, timescale, description, priority, KPI metric, justification, raised by, to be actioned by, and date required by.

Back to top
 

Introduction to The CSI Process
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize how the Deming cycle integrates with the CSI seven-step improvement process
•identify the purpose of using the CSI seven-step improvement process
 
1. CSI and the Deming cycle

Many activities have to be completed to ensure effective Continual Service Improvement (CSI) across the Service Lifecycle.

ITIL® prescribes a seven-step improvement process for incorporating these activities. The process involves identifying, defining, gathering, processing, analyzing, presenting, and then implementing the service improvements.

This process integrates with the Deming cycle to provide reliable, ongoing service improvements.

The Deming cycle, also known as the PDCA cycle includes four steps, each of which maps to specific CSI activities in the seven-step improvement process.



Graphic

The Deming cycle diagram consists of a circular arrow that goes in a clockwise direction. The word Plan is at the top of the arrow, Do is on the right, Check at the bottom, and Act on the left.
PlanThe Plan step involves identifying the vision, business need, and operational and strategic goals driving the need for improvements. Once these are in place, you can identify opportunities for specific improvements and their associated Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for measurement.
The Plan step links to the first two sets of CSI activities. First identify the strategy for improvement, including the vision, business need, strategy, tactical goals, and operational goals. Second, define what you will measure. 
DoThe Do step involves collecting raw data from service operations and then processing this data, using Critical Success Factors (CSFs) to ensure that all of it is evaluated in the same context.
The Do step links to the third and fourth set of CSI activities. Third gather the data by asking who, how, and what, and develop criteria to evaluate the integrity of data, operational goals, and service measurement. Fourth process the data by finding out the frequency, format, tools and systems, and accuracy. 
CheckThe Check step involves analyzing the prepared data to reveal business trends and the success or failure of the strategy determined in the Plan step. You can then communicate the analyzed data and conclusions about the effectiveness of service improvement efforts to stakeholders.
The Check step links to the fifth and sixth set of CSI activities. Fifth analyze the information and data by answering questions about trends, targets, and improvements required. Sixth present and use the information, including assessment summary and action plans. 
ActThe Act step involves taking action based on the results of data analysis. Following this step, an organization establishes a new baseline and the Deming cycle can begin again.
The Act step involves the seventh CSI activity, which is to implement improvements. 



Question

Match each step in the Deming cycle to the appropriate CSI activities.

Options:
A.Plan
B.Do
C.Check
D.Act

Targets:
1.Identify the strategy for improvement and define what you'll measure
2.Gather and process data
3.Analyze the data, and present and use the resulting information
4.Implement improvements

Answer

The Plan step involves identifying an improvement strategy – recognizing vision, business need, strategy, tactical goals, and operational goals. It also involves defining what to measure to track the effectiveness of service improvement initiatives.

The Do step involves gathering data to analyze from service operations, establishing criteria for determining the data's integrity, and processing the data so it can be analyzed.

The Check step involves analyzing the processed data against the standards defined in the plan to illustrate business results. After the data is analyzed, the results can be presented to relevant stakeholders.

The Act step involves implementing service improvements in the areas previously identified and analyzed. Improvement actions are communicated to relevant personnel, who take the planned steps to implement the improvements.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

2. The purpose of the CSI process

The objectives of the CSI process are to
identify opportunities for improving servicesIdentifying opportunities for improving services is aligned with the Plan step of the Deming cycle and is the starting point for any service improvement initiative.

Take the example of a wireless Internet service provider that embarks on an initiative to improve services for customers. The IT analysis team identifies several areas to improve, including increased bandwidth, connectivity, and customer benefits included with each account.reduce the cost of providing servicesIt's possible to reduce the cost of providing services and ensure that IT services enable required business outcomes to be achieved.

In the example of the Internet service provider, reducing the cost of providing services to customers will mean increased organizational profits. The IT analyst team determines a way for the company to pay less for the bandwidth sold to customers without degrading service.identify what needs to be measuredService improvement helps you identify what needs to be measured, analyzed, and reported to establish improvement opportunities.

In the example of the Internet service provider, the IT analysis team examines the opportunities for improving services, and determines what can be measured to determine a service improvement success rate. This includes measuring the bandwidth provided to customers compared to the price paid by the provider, and the stability of different types of customer connection technology.continually review service achievements, andYou should continually review service achievements to ensure that they remain aligned with business requirements. You can also continually align and re-align service provisioning with outcome requirements.

In the example of the Internet service provider, the analysis team can measure the effectiveness of service improvements by comparing current and past financial records, and current and past durations for providing the same IT services.understand what to measureIt's vital to understand what to measure and why, and to have a clear definition of what will constitute a successful outcome of an improvement initiative.

In the Internet service provider example, the analyst team determines the technical aspects of what to measure concerning the service improvement opportunities. This includes the bandwidth transfer rates of different technology, and the cost versus effectiveness of different types of broadcast technologies and strategies.
Every potential improvement opportunity should be accompanied by a business case, or justification, to show how it will benefit a business overall.

Although cost reduction is a clear objective, it should be achieved without sacrificing quality. Similarly, improvements in quality shouldn't be implemented unless the costs of making the improvements are warranted.

It's important to note that the seven-step improvement process isn't independent. It will achieve the desired outcomes only when applied to technology, services, processes, the organization, and its partners.



Graphic

The seven-step improvement process is to 1. Identify the strategy for improvement, 2. Define what you will measure, 3. Gather the data, 4. Process the data, 5. Analyze the information, 6. Present and use the information, 7. Implement improvement.

The scope of the CSI seven-step improvement process includes
service analysisService analysis includes analyzing the performance and capabilities of services, processes throughout the lifecycle, organizational partners, and technology.service alignmentCSI includes the continual alignment of the IT Service Portfolio with the current and future business needs of service users. Improvements also depend on the maturity of the enabling IT processes for each service.service technology, andCSI involves making the best possible use of the technology that an organization has, as well as planning to exploit new technology as it becomes available, where there is a business case for doing so.organizational structure and personnelThe process can be used to assess and improve organizational structure and the capabilities of personnel. For example, you can use it to determine whether people are working in appropriate functions and roles, and if they have the required skills.
By monitoring and analyzing the delivery of IT services, the seven-step improvement process helps ensure that current and future business needs are recognized and met.

It also enables continual assessment of the current situation against business needs and identifies opportunities to improve service provisioning for customers and users.



Question

In which situations is it most appropriate to use the CSI seven-step improvement process?

Options:
1.You want to cease regular assessments to determine improvement opportunities for your business
2.You want to measure how specific activities relate to improved service 
3.You want to minimize the cost of the IT services that support your business
4.You want to use the process as a free-standing tool to streamline the IT side of your business
5.You want to find new ways to improve your organization’s IT service
6.You want to determine what to be measure, analyze and report, to establish improvement opportunities

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. One of the main objectives of the seven-step improvement process is to encourage continual assessments to identify and develop new ways to improve service.

Option 2: Correct. The seven-step improvement process aims to explain how measurable activities contribute to service improvement.

Option 3: Correct. The seven-step improvement process aims to reduce the cost of providing services and ensuring that IT services enable the required business outcomes to be achieved.

Option 4: Incorrect. The seven-step improvement process must be applied to services, tools, organizational partners, and technology to support CSI.

Option 5: Correct. The seven-step process enables you to identify opportunities for improving services, processes, and tools, in order to improve your IT services.

Option 6: Correct. Once you've identified areas for improvement, the seven-step improvement process allows you to identify what to measure to be able to rate your improvement progress.

Correct answer(s):

2. You want to measure how specific activities relate to improved service 
3. You want to minimize the cost of the IT services that support your business
5. You want to find new ways to improve your organization’s IT service
6. You want to determine what to be measure, analyze and report, to establish improvement opportunities

3. Summary

The CSI seven-step improvement process includes identifying, defining, gathering, processing, analyzing, presenting, and implementing service improvements. It integrates closely with the Deming cycle.

The CSI process enables you to identify opportunities for improving service, reduce the cost of providing IT services, identify what needs to be measured to establish improvement opportunities, understand why those things are measured, and ensure a continual improvement cycle. This allows for cost-effective IT service improvement that aligns to desired business outcomes.

Back to top
 

The CSI Seven-step Improvement Process
  

Learning Objectives 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•identify considerations for identifying strategies and defining measurements using the CSI seven-step improvement process
•describe the metrics an organization will need to collect to support CSI and other process activities
•describe best practices for data processing and analysis using the CSI seven-step improvement process
•identify situations and scenarios when improvement implementation is appropriate
 
1. Identifying strategies and measurements

The Continual Service Improvement (CSI) process includes seven steps.



Graphic

The seven steps in the CSI process are to 1. Identify the strategy for improvement, 2. Define what you'll measure, 3. Gather data, 4. Process the data, 5. Analyze the information, 6. Present and use the information, and 7. Implement improvements.

The aim of the process is to ensure ongoing improvement of IT services so that these services meet business needs and support the desired business outcomes.

To start the CSI process, you need to ask pertinent questions to help identify an appropriate strategy for improvement. For example, what are the organization's business and IT strategies and plans for the coming months and years? And what do these plans indicate you should focus on improving?



Graphic

In the CSI seven-step improvement process diagram, the step 1. Identify the strategy for improvement is highlighted.

The strategy you formulate should be designed to enable the business to perform optimally, with as few constraints as possible posed by the quality or costs of IT services.

To identify an appropriate strategy, you assess the organization's
technical operational goals and strategic goals, andAn organization's strategic goals will help you determine its overall IT service needs, and so help shape the focus of service improvement efforts. For example, if an organization's strategic goal is to provide customers with a service at a lower cost than its competitors, IT service improvements may focus on improving efficiency and cutting operating costs.

Technical operational goals will give you more specific requirements for IT service improvements. For example, a goal of reducing the time it takes to complete a particular process may depend on specific improvements in the performance of an IT system or in data transfer rates.upcoming business and IT plansUpcoming business and IT plans may have implications for the improvement strategy you choose.

For instance, business expansion plans may require a focus on increasing network capacity. Plans to upgrade a company's information management system may create a corresponding need for higher-bandwidth network connections.
Among the questions you can ask to help identify a strategy for improvement are "What are the organization's business objectives?" "What effects do poor internal IT services have on profits?" and "How can improvements in IT services help the organization achieve its business objectives?"

An organization's business objectives help reveal its strategy.

And improvements in IT services can help support a business objective point to suitable technical operational goals.

Once you've identified the strategy for improvement, you need to decide how progress will be measured.

In this step, you



Graphic

In the CSI seven-step improvement process diagram, the step 2. Define what you will measure is highlighted.
• define what you should measure 
• define what you can actually measure 
• conduct a gap analysis, and 
• finalize a measurement plan 

To define what you'll measure to track service improvements, you should assess
service elementsYou should assess the elements of an IT service, or the activities involved in a Service Management process, that's targeted for improvement. This will help you break the service or management process down to its constituent parts so you can determine which elements it's possible to measure.
performance indicators, andFor each service or Service Management process, you should assess the available performance indicators. For example, how are performance, availability, and quality currently measured – and how could they be measured? Once you've established this, you can determine which performance indicators are most suitable given the goals of an improvement initiative.
the goals of the target audienceIt's vital to focus on making service improvements that will be of value to service users, or you risk wasting time and money on improvements that your internal or external customers consider unnecessary.

Accordingly, once you've identified an improvement strategy, you should establish metrics designed to measure service elements that customers and users consider important, or that are key to customers achieving their own business goals.

During the CSI stage, it may be relevant to measure
• customer and user levels of satisfaction with existing IT services 
• the business impact of IT service disruptions 
• the performance of third-party suppliers, and 
• market performance, to establish whether IT services are in line with or superior to those offered by other service providers 



Question

Match each activity to the corresponding step in the CSI process. More than one activity may match to a step.

Options:
A.Assess technical operational goals and strategic goals
B.Assess upcoming business and IT plans
C.Assess the elements of the service or Service Management processes targeted for improvement
D.Assess the goals of the target audience
E.Assess performance indicators for the targeted service or Service Management activity

Targets:
1.Identify the strategy for improvement
2.Define what you'll measure

Answer

To identify an appropriate strategy for improvement, you need to assess the organization's technical operational and strategic goals, as well as upcoming business and IT plans.

To define what to measure for improvement, you should assess service elements and available performance indicators, as well as the goals of service users.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A, Option B

Target 2 = Option C, Option D, Option E

2. Gathering data

Once you know what to measure, the third step in the CSI process is to gather data. This involves monitoring the relevant service or Service Management processes. You may do this using application, system, and component monitoring tools or, in certain cases, a manual monitoring process.



Graphic

In the CSI seven-step improvement process diagram, the step 3. Gathering the data is highlighted.

Typically you focus on monitoring quality, or the effectiveness and efficiency, of a service, process, tool, or Configuration Item (CI).

The emphasis isn't on assuring real-time service performance, but on identifying where improvements can be made. So monitoring for CSI tends to focus on detecting exceptions and tracking resolutions.

However, you shouldn't focus only on monitoring for exceptions or weaknesses. If a Service Level Agreement (SLA) is consistently met over time, you should focus on determining whether that level of performance can be sustained at a lower cost – or whether the targeted service levels need to be adjusted due to changing business requirements.

You won't need or be able to cope with the vast quantities of data produced by all monitoring activities, so the focus in the CSI process will be on a specific subset of monitoring at any given time.

When a new IT service is being designed or an existing one changed, this is a perfect opportunity to ensure that the service requirements contain what CSI needs to monitor.

To support CSI, you typically need to collect
technology metricsTechnology metrics are often associated with component and application-based metrics such as performance and availability. They measure the performance of components that make up an IT service.process metrics, andProcess metrics are captured in the form of Critical Success Factors (CSFs), Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), and activity metrics for the Service Management processes. These metrics can help determine the overall health of a process.

KPIs can help answer key questions on quality, performance, value, and compliance in following the process. CSI would use these metrics as input in identifying improvement opportunities for each process. Managers in charge of the specific processes are generally responsible for defining process metrics.service metrics


Question

Match each metric type to the corresponding description.

Options:
A.Technology metric
B.Process metric
C.Service metric
D.Defect containment metrics

Targets:
1.A metric that measures the performance of a component of a service
2.A metric that gauges the health and quality of a Service Management process
3.A metric that measures the performance of a service as a whole

Answer

Technology metrics are often associated with component and application-based metrics that give quantifiable results on the parts that make up a whole service.

Process metrics are captured in the form of CSFs, KPIs, and activity metrics for Service Management processes.

Service metrics are used to measure the end-to-end effectiveness of a service, often using combined technology metrics.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

3. Data processing and analysis

The next step in the CSI process after gathering data, is to process that data. Through processing, you convert the data that has been gathered into a usable format that can be interpreted and analyzed.



Graphic

In the CSI seven-step improvement process diagram, the step 4. Process the data is highlighted.

Data processing may be automated or manual. Automated data gathering and processing is less vulnerable to errors than manual processing, so it's good practice to automate as much as possible.

Where manual processing is required, it's vital for employees to document their compliance activities, and to keep logs and records updated. For instance, you may need certain employees to log the time it takes to upload specific types of files.

Data analysis is the fifth step in the CSI process. This step involves transforming the data you've processed into useful information, including information about improvement opportunities. More skill and experience is required to analyze data than to gather and process it.



Graphic

In the CSI seven-step improvement process diagram, the step 5. Analyze the information is highlighted.

During analysis, you assess the extent to which the measured service or Service Management process is meeting specified goals and objectives. You also document your observations and conclusions clearly.

When analyzing data, it's important to ask questions such as
• Are operations running according to plan? 
• Are targets defined in SLAs or the Service Catalog being met? 
• Are there underlying structural problems that can be identified? 
• Are improvements required? 
• Are there any trends, and if so, what are the trends showing and are they positive or negative? 
• What is leading to or causing the trends? 

It's good practice to review trends over a period of time. Just a snapshot view of data about a service or Service Management process is unlikely to be very informative. Instead, it's useful to ask "How did we do this month compared with last month, this quarter compared with last quarter, this year compared with last year?"

If you detect an anomaly, verify that it's not actually part of a trend – and investigate its possible causes.

Similarly, investigate trends – or changes in trends – to determine their underlying causes.



Question

Match each best practice or activity to the appropriate step in the CSI process. More than one best practice or activity may match to a step.

Options:
A.Automate as much as possible
B.Document compliance activities
C.Update logs and records
D.Review trends over a period of time
E.Examine what led to the current period analysis results
F.Ascertain if a bad result is an anomaly

Targets:
1.Process the data
2.Analyze the information

Answer

The data processing step should be automated as much as possible for accuracy. Employees should also document compliance activities and update logs and records, to ensure that collection and processing is performed accurately and consistently.

Best practices for analyzing information are to review trends over a period of time and establish whether any anomaly is actually part of a trend. It's also important to determine the underlying causes of data trends.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A, Option B, Option C

Target 2 = Option D, Option E, Option F

4. Presenting and using CSI information

The sixth step in the CSI process is to present the analyzed data – in reports, action plans, reviews, evaluations, and identified improvement opportunities – to relevant stakeholders.



Graphic

In the CSI seven-step improvement process diagram, the step 6. Present and use the information is highlighted.

You should ensure that the data is presented in a way that your target audience will find easy to understand.

It's important to include only information that's of value to your particular target audience. You should note exceptions and identify benefits that were revealed during the monitored time period.

The information you present should differ depending on whether your audience consists of
customersCustomers should be informed whether targeted service levels were provided and, in the case of weaknesses, what improvements are being implemented to improve the situation.

For example, an Internet service provider may explain causes of service interruption to customers, and note how planned improvements will make the customers' connections faster and more reliable.senior managementSenior managers are likely to focus on the types of information provided by CSFs and KPIs. For example, they're likely to be interested in customer satisfaction levels, actual performance in relation to planned performance, and costing and revenue targets. These types of information help inform strategic and tactical improvements on a larger scale.

Senior IT management may require this type of information in the form of a balanced scorecard. In the case of an Internet service provider, for example, you might deliver scorecards to senior managers to demonstrate the cost benefits of investing in technology and how this will improve customer satisfaction and increase profits.internal IT personnel, andInternal IT personnel are often interested in the information KPIs and activity metrics provide because this can help them plan, coordinate, schedule, and identify incremental improvement opportunities.

In the case of an Internet service provider, you might present IT staff with a report on how the effective use of new technology can benefit the running of the company's IT infrastructure.suppliersSuppliers are likely to be interested in KPIs and activity metrics related to their own services and performance. Suppliers may also be targeted with improvement initiatives.
It's vital for IT managers to invest time in understanding specific business goals and to translate IT metrics to reflect their impacts on these goals.

The major challenge, and one that can be met, is to communicate effectively the business benefits of a well-run IT support group. The starting point is a new perspective on goals, measures, reporting, and how IT actions affect business results.

Although most reports tend to concentrate on negative areas, it's also important to report good news. It's vitally important to indicate whether CSI has actually improved overall service provision and, if not, the actions taken to rectify the situation.



Question

Match each type of audience to the method of communication and information formatting that best suits it.

Options:
A.Customers
B.Senior management
C.Internal IT 
D.Suppliers

Targets:
1.A message explaining the level of IT service and accompanying improvements
2.A balanced scorecard containing reports on how IT improvements can affect customer service and revenue streams
3.A report containing metrics illustrating the inner workings of the IT Department
4.A message suggesting procedural improvements to align services with ongoing IT improvement initiatives

Answer

Customers should be notified whether the promised level of IT service is being provided and, if not, what actions are being taken to improve the situation.

Senior management is likely to be most interested in information that can help determine strategic and tactical improvements on a larger scale, presented in a way that illustrates the big picture.

Internal IT staff are generally interested in KPIs and activity metrics, which can help them identify and plan procedural improvement initiatives.

Suppliers and third parties will be interested in metrics and improvement suggestions related to their own services.

Correct answer(s):

Target 1 = Option A

Target 2 = Option B

Target 3 = Option C

Target 4 = Option D

5. Implementing improvements

The final step in the CSI process is implementing the improvements that have been identified.



Graphic

In the CSI seven-step improvement process diagram, the step 7. Implement improvement is highlighted.

However, the CSI process may identify many opportunities for improvement, and it may not be feasible to implement all of them. As a result, organizations need to prioritize improvement opportunities.

Once a decision is made to improve a particular IT service or Service Management process, the Service Lifecycle continues.

The seven steps in the CSI process can be described as a "knowledge spiral" rather than a simple cycle.



Graphic

The seven steps in the CSI process are to 1. Identify the strategy for improvement, 2. Define what you'll measure, 3. Gather data, 4. Process the data, 5. Analyze the information, 6. Present and use the information, and 7. Implement improvements.

Each time the process is completed, organizational knowledge is gained. This can then be used to inform future service improvements.

Each step in the seven-step improvement process correlates to the sequence of elements in the Data-Information-Knowledge-Wisdom (DIKW) model.
DataData represents the raw facts that are dealt with in steps two and three of the CSI process, which involve determining what to measure and gathering data.
Data relates to these steps in the seven-step improvement process: 2. Define what you will measure and 3. Gather the data. 
InformationInformation is used in step four of the CSI process, which involves processing the data that has been collected. When data is processed, it's given contextual meaning and is thereby converted into information.
Information relates to the seven-step improvement process step 4. Process the data. 
KnowledgeKnowledge is generated and used in steps five and six of the CSI process, which involve analyzing, and presenting and using the information that has been processed. Knowledge is information that's placed in a context and that equips the holder to act upon and use that information.
Knowledge relates to these steps in the seven-step improvement process: 5. Analyze the information and 6. Present and use the information. 
WisdomWisdom is used in the seventh step of the CSI process and feeds back into the ongoing CSI cycle. Wisdom is the accumulation of data, information, and knowledge that leads to an informed state of understanding in which the knowledge holder can act effectively and add value to an organization.
Wisdom relates to these steps in the seven-step improvement process: 7. Implement improvement and 1. Identify the strategy for improvement. 

For CSI to truly succeed, it has to be fully integrated with each stage in the Service Lifecycle, and with the processes in each of these stages.



Graphic

A diagram representing the ITIL® Service Lifecycle shows the Service Design, Service Operation, and Service Transition stages surrounding Service Strategy. Continual Service Improvement is a final layer, encompassing all of the other stages.

An overall continual service approach by an organization can be used to help ensure that improvement opportunities are identified throughout the entire service life cycle.

The approach includes six general steps for consideration.
Business vision, mission, goals and objectivesUnderstand the high-level business objectives in order to embrace the vision of the organization, which ideally should align business and IT strategies.Baseline assessmentsGet an accurate, unbiased view of where the organization is right now – including the business, organization, people, process, and technology.Measurable targetsDevelop specific goals and a manageable timeframe by understanding and agreeing on the priorities for improvement.Service and process improvementDetail the CSI plan and achieve higher quality service provision by implementing or improving ITSM processes.Measurement and metricsVerify that measurements and metrics exist, that they work and are accurate, determine if milestones were reached, process compliance is high, and business objectives and priorities are met by the level of service.SustainabilityLong-term quality improvement requires organizational acceptance. Ensure acceptance and changes are embedded in the organization.


Question

In which situations is the use of the CSI process most appropriate?

Options:
1.A chain of popular electronics retailer that discovers it's losing business on its web site due to the stock database frequently being out of date
2.An Internet service provider that is losing customers to a larger service provider that offers better rates
3.An animation company that discovers its workflow suffers from numerous lags between various automated and manual processes
4.A code developer that suffers from a high staff turnover and as a result has difficulty implementing any IT improvement initiatives

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Infrequent web site and database updates can be the result of a lagging IT service and can therefore be diagnosed and alleviated using the CSI process.

Option 2: Incorrect. Increasing IT service efficiency may help a business operate more cost effectively, but it won't provide the resources to radically undercut the prices of a larger competitor.

Option 3: Correct. A workflow issue with both automated and manual contributing factors can be diagnosed and ameliorated by the CSI process.

Option 4: Incorrect. High staff turnover is a human resources management issue and needs to be sorted out before a meaningful CSI IT improvement initiative can be implemented.

Correct answer(s):

1. A chain of popular electronics retailer that discovers it's losing business on its web site due to the stock database frequently being out of date
3. An animation company that discovers its workflow suffers from numerous lags between various automated and manual processes

6. Summary

The CSI process includes seven steps. The process starts with identifying potential improvement strategies and defining what must be measured.

The next step is gathering data using technology, service, and process metrics.

The data is then processed and analyzed, after which it's prepared for presentation to relevant stakeholders.

The information is communicated to stakeholders in an appropriate format, to inform and prompt improvement action.

The final step of the process is to implement the identified improvements. A continual service improvement approach helps ensure that improvement opportunities are identified throughout the entire service life cycle.



Supplement

Selecting the link title opens the resource in a new browser window.

Follow-on Activity

Access these practice exams:
Sample Foundation Exam Paper A, Version 4.2, and
Sample Foundation Exam Paper B, Version 4.0.

Back to top
 

Recognizing the Seven Steps to Improvement
  

Learning Objective 

After completing this topic, you should be able to 
•recognize how to use the seven-step improvement process of CSI
 
1. Exercise overview

In this exercise, you're required to demonstrate your familiarity with the Continual Service Improvement (CSI) stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle.

This involves the following tasks:
•identifying the scope and benefits of CSI
•identifying how to use the CSI register, and
•recognizing the seven steps of the CSI process

2. Identifying benefits and scope

An IT organization provides an off-site data storage service for customers that need to store sensitive information. As part of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle, it wants to use the CSI process to improve its IT services on an ongoing basis.



Question

What considerations should the organization bear in mind when implementing CSI?

Options:
1.Ensure that service improvements have clearly defined goals
2.Use a closed-loop feedback system
3.Adhere to the strict framework that CSI provides for making service improvements
4.Determine appropriate measurements for service improvements, as well as their expected outcomes
5.Ensure that service improvements align with business needs
6.Adjust business processes to yield service improvements

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Effective CSI ensures that service improvements are implemented and managed using clearly defined goals, objectives, and measurements.

Option 2: Correct. The CSI feedback system uses the output from one lifecycle stage to identify improvement opportunities for any other stage in the lifecycle.

Option 3: Incorrect. CSI provides best-practice guidelines, rather than a rigid framework, for implementing service improvements.

Option 4: Correct. CSI helps to determine what to measure, why it is being measured, and what the successful outcome should be.

Option 5: Correct. CSI ensures that an IT service provider's Service Portfolio remains aligned with the business needs of its internal or external customers.

Option 6: Incorrect. The purpose of CSI is to ensure that IT services align with changing business needs, rather than the other way around.

Correct answer(s):

1. Ensure that service improvements have clearly defined goals
2. Use a closed-loop feedback system
4. Determine appropriate measurements for service improvements, as well as their expected outcomes
5. Ensure that service improvements align with business needs



Question

How can the organization benefit from using CSI?

Options:
1.It can continually improve the quality of the data storage service
2.It can ensure that the data storage service is aligned with its business needs
3.It can improve its cost-effectiveness
4.It can identify opportunities for improvements in the final stage of the ITIL® Service Lifecycle
5.It will have access to a formal standard for auditing management capabilities
6.The organization can identify other possible opportunities for organizational improvements

Answer

Option 1: Correct. CSI will enable the organization to achieve continual improvement in service quality and customer satisfaction.

Option 2: Correct. CSI helps ensure that all the services in the organization's Service Portfolio are aligned with its customers' business needs.

Option 3: Correct. CSI can increase an organization's cost effectiveness by reducing costs, or by enabling it to handle more work at the same cost.

Option 4: Incorrect. CSI enables the organization to use monitoring and reporting to identify potential opportunities for improvement in all lifecycle stages.

Option 5: Incorrect. CSI provides best-practice guidance for improving IT service quality. It doesn't provide formal standards for auditing Service Management.

Option 6: Correct. CSI enables the organization to identify opportunities for improvements in its structure, resourcing capabilities, partners, technology, staff skills and training, and communications.

Correct answer(s):

1. It can continually improve the quality of the data storage service
2. It can ensure that the data storage service is aligned with its business needs
3. It can improve its cost-effectiveness
6. The organization can identify other possible opportunities for organizational improvements

3. Using the CSI register

As part of the CSI stage, the organization implements a CSI register.



Question

Why should the organization use a CSI register?

Options:
1.It enables the organization to record all the identified improvement opportunities for the data storage service
2.It allows the organization to categorize the identified improvement opportunities for the data storage service
3.It enables the organization to catalog the benefits that can be achieved by implementing specific improvements for the data storage service
4.It provides a coordinated, consistent view of numerous improvement activities
5.It enables all IT staff members to take accountability for capturing and recording improvement initiatives
6.It offers a one-size-fits-all guide to service improvement that will benefit all types of organizations

Answer

Option 1: Correct. A CSI register enables an organization to keep track of improvement opportunities and associated benefits.

Option 2: Correct. The CSI register enables an organization to categorize improvement opportunities based on their size, or scale, and likely duration.

Option 3: Correct. The CSI register introduces structure and visibility to service improvements by associated them with clearly defined goals and metrics for tracking their success.

Option 4: Correct. The CSI register provides a coordinated, consistent view by stating each and every possible activity that leads to an improvement in service.

Option 5: Incorrect. The production and maintenance of a CSI register should be handled by a dedicated CSI manager.

Option 6: Incorrect. Each organization should evaluate its specific requirements and create a CSI register to suit its purposes.

Correct answer(s):

1. It enables the organization to record all the identified improvement opportunities for the data storage service
2. It allows the organization to categorize the identified improvement opportunities for the data storage service
3. It enables the organization to catalog the benefits that can be achieved by implementing specific improvements for the data storage service
4. It provides a coordinated, consistent view of numerous improvement activities



Question

What considerations should the organization keep in mind when compiling the CSI register?

Options:
1.It should associate proposed improvements with appropriate Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
2.It should provide an interface with other processes
3.It should relate only to CSI activities to prevent overlaps with documentation produced during other stages
4.It should be considered part of the organization's Service Knowledge Management System (SKMS)
5.It should use the strictly defined format outlined for all organizations

Answer

Option 1: Correct. Each proposed improvement in the CSI register should be accompanied by relevant KPIs and other metrics for measuring the success or failure of the improvements.

Option 2: Correct. The CSI register should provide an interface with strategic initiatives and processes such as Problem Management, Capacity Management, and Change Management.

Option 3: Incorrect. Processes like Problem Management, Capacity Management, and Change Management may all provide information that relates to improvement opportunities and that should be recorded in the CSI register.

Option 4: Correct. The CSI register contains important information and so should be regarded as part of an organization's overall SKMS.

Option 5: Incorrect. Each organization should design a CSI register to suit its specific needs.

Correct answer(s):

1. It should associate proposed improvements with appropriate Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
2. It should provide an interface with other processes
4. It should be considered part of the organization's Service Knowledge Management System (SKMS)

4. Recognizing the CSI process

Next the organization implements the CSI process, which includes seven steps.



Graphic

The seven steps in the CSI process are to 1. Identify the strategy for improvement, 2. Define what you'll measure, 3. Gather data, 4. Process the data, 5. Analyze the information, 6. Present and use the information, and 7. Implement improvements.



Question

Why should the organization use the CSI process?

Options:
1.To enable it to cease regular assessments to determine improvement opportunities
2.To determine why it should measure specific activities, and to understand how they relate to an improved data storage service 
3.To minimize the cost of provisioning the IT data storage service
4.To find new ways to improve the data storage service
5.To determine what to measure, analyze, and report to track improvement efforts
6.To streamline the IT side of the business by using the process as a standalone tool

Answer

Option 1: Incorrect. The seven-step improvement process encourages continual assessments that help to identify and develop new ways to improve a service.

Option 2: Correct. The seven-step improvement process helps to determine how measurable activities contribute to service improvement.

Option 3: Correct. The seven-step improvement process helps to reduce the cost of providing services.

Option 4: Correct. The seven-step improvement process helps to identify opportunities for improving services, processes, and tools, in order to improve a services.

Option 5: Correct. The seven-step improvement process helps to identify what to measure to be able to rate progress.

Option 6: Incorrect. The seven-step improvement process works by improving services, tools, organizational partners, and technology to produce continual service improvement. It can't provide business improvements without the necessary business context.

Correct answer(s):

2. To determine why it should measure specific activities, and to understand how they relate to an improved data storage service 
3. To minimize the cost of provisioning the IT data storage service
4. To find new ways to improve the data storage service
5. To determine what to measure, analyze, and report to track improvement efforts



Question

What should the organization measure during the CSI process

Options:
1.Customer satisfaction
2.Business impact
3.Supplier performance
4.Employee satisfaction
5.Market performance
6.Service levels
7.Competitor performance

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The organization should continually measure how satisfied customers are with the service that's being provided.

Option 2: Correct. The organization should measure the actions that are invoked by service disruptions, and how they affect customers.

Option 3: Correct. The organization should measure its relationships with suppliers and the performance of these suppliers.

Option 4: Incorrect. Unless unsatisfactory work conditions, for example, drive employees away, employee satisfaction shouldn't impact the CSI process.

Option 5: Correct. The organization should measure market performance to ensure that the services remains aligned with those of other service providers.

Option 6: Correct. The organization should measure service availability and quality.

Option 7: Incorrect. Competitor performance may impact the organization, but this won't provide data relevant to improving the organization's own services.

Correct answer(s):

1. Customer satisfaction
2. Business impact
3. Supplier performance
5. Market performance
6. Service levels



Question

After determining what to measure, what activities should the organization conduct?

Options:
1.Measure the performance and availability of technologies that make up processes
2.Measure Service Management KPIs
3.Measure the effectiveness of each service considered for potential improvement
4.Measure the potential profits of large investments in new IT equipment
5.Measure the effectiveness of employee training programs in customer service

Answer

Option 1: Correct. CSI uses technology metrics that measure the effectiveness of the applications, technology, and components that make up IT processes.

Option 2: Correct. CSI uses process metrics that can help determine the overall health of a process. KPIs can help answer key questions on quality, performance, value, and compliance in following the process.

Option 3: Correct. CSI requires service metrics that measure the effectiveness of an entire service. Often technology metrics are used to gather data for service metrics.

Option 4: Incorrect. Large investments would be judged on the results of various budgeting and investment metrics, rather than using metrics associated with Service Management.

Option 5: Incorrect. Employee training would be rated on the results of human resources metrics rather than using metrics related to Service Management.

Correct answer(s):

1. Measure the performance and availability of technologies that make up processes
2. Measure Service Management KPIs
3. Measure the effectiveness of each service considered for potential improvement



Question

What should the organization do when analyzing the service-related data it has collected?

Options:
1.Review data trends over a period of time
2.Examine anomalies to determine if they point to trends
3.Examine underlying causes for current results
4.Focus on negative results in the current period as the most urgent
5.Examine service results over a three-day period

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The organization must consider data trends over a sufficient time period, otherwise gradual improvement or deterioration of service may go unnoticed.

Option 2: Correct. The organization should examine anomalies to determine whether these point to underlying trends or are simple exceptions.

Option 3: Correct. When current results call for CSI implementation, it becomes important to examine underlying causes. If the underlying causes are unknown, then the focus of the CSI process could be directed at the wrong processes and services.

Option 4: Incorrect. Although negative results often act as a trigger to implement the CSI process, it's important to review trends over a longer period to consider them in the larger context.

Option 5: Incorrect. Analyzing results over a short period can result in missed or misinterpreted trends.

Correct answer(s):

1. Review data trends over a period of time
2. Examine anomalies to determine if they point to trends
3. Examine underlying causes for current results



Question

You want to present the results of analyzing CSI data to the organization's internal IT managers and senior managers. 

What methods of communication and information formatting are appropriate for these target audiences?

Options:
1.A balanced scorecard containing reports on how IT improvements can affect customer service and revenue streams
2.A report containing metrics able to suggest improvements to the inner working of the IT Department
3.A message explaining the level of IT service and accompanying improvements
4.A message suggesting procedural improvements to align services with ongoing IT improvement initiatives

Answer

Option 1: Correct. A scorecard is most relevant to senior management. This can help determine strategic and tactical improvements on a larger scale, presented in a way that illustrates the big picture.

Option 2: Correct. Internal IT is often interested in KPIs and activity metrics that help them identify and plan procedural improvement initiatives for the IT Department.

Option 3: Incorrect. Customers would be most interested in whether the promised level of IT service and planned improvements on service delivery have occurred.

Option 4: Incorrect. Suppliers and third parties would be interested in metrics and improvement suggestions related to their own services.

Correct answer(s):

1. A balanced scorecard containing reports on how IT improvements can affect customer service and revenue streams
2. A report containing metrics able to suggest improvements to the inner working of the IT Department



Question

The organization identifies a number of possible improvement actions for the IT service. 

What actions align with the CSI process and will offer the greatest benefits for the organization?

Options:
1.A low-cost investment in technology upgrade that will enable the organization to offer customers increased storage space without a price increases
2.An improvement in a process that enables customers to renew their accounts more quickly and efficiently
3.The purchase of several new, expensive servers that will allow IT services to work significantly faster
4.The hiring of a new IT manager from a competitor company to streamline the IT Department's operations

Answer

Option 1: Correct. The CSI process can call for investment in new technology if it improves IT services, as long as the cost of providing services isn't massively increased.

Option 2: Correct. The CSI process can identify and diagnosis possible problems in processes. By following the process, the organization can determine appropriate improvement actions to improve the ailing process.

Option 3: Incorrect. The CSI process may yield many improvement initiatives, but such initiatives would be unfavorable if they increase the cost of IT service.

Option 4: Incorrect. A new manager hired specifically to streamline the IT Department may choose to implement the CSI process, but the hiring itself falls outside the scope of CSI.

Correct answer(s):

1. A low-cost investment in technology upgrade that will enable the organization to offer customers increased storage space without a price increases
2. An improvement in a process that enables customers to renew their accounts more quickly and efficiently

The scope and benefits of the CSI process have been identified, and the steps of the process have been tested.

Back to top
 

© 2017 Skillsoft Ireland Limited
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  